T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

R

INTRODUCTION
Alien races and cultures often make handy ‘bad guys’ or
plot vehicles for entertainment. For example, in lowbudget Imperial dramas it is not uncommon to find that a
Hiver has manipulated everyone to create a bad situation
or a Solomani agent has done something horrible. These
actions need not be explained; they have become tropes
in entertainment and provide a convenient way of getting
on with the plot without needing to provide a backstory
or motivation for the character. This does the cultures
in question a disservice, of course, and hardly furthers
interstellar diplomacy and understanding.
The reality of these cultures is rather more complex. The
Solomani, for example, are often portrayed as jackbooted
racists but in fact can be better thought of as snobs
rather than haters. They have good and – some would
say – provable reasons for ‘knowing’ they are the ultimate
expression of Humaniti. It is their destiny to lead and to
show others the path to greatness. This can represent
itself as racism and a view that others are inferior, but
the typical Solomani is not an alien-hater.
The Droyne are widely known for their caste system and
general weirdness, but there is much more to them than
that. They have reasons for everything they do; reasons
based on millennia of specialised evolution that led
to their caste system. Understanding how the Droyne
think is the key to portraying them effectively. A Droyne

2

is not mindless, like an insect or part of a hive-mind,
but they think in terms of community rather than self.
Without their community a Droyne is worthless and will
probably just die, so sacrifice on behalf of the community
may make more sense than self-preservation. Droyne
thinking is also directed by the caste system – a Worker
or Technician thinks in terms of accomplishing the
tasks they have been given; a Drone thinks in terms of
protecting and nurturing the young, and seeing to the
common good of the community.
The Hivers’ mindset is based on cooperation, but
cooperation in which others act to the benefit of
the individual. From this comes the concept of
manipulation; getting others to do what you want
without necessarily realising they are serving your ends.
Given that they are physically weak and cowardly, the
idea of working through others without direct coercion
makes perfect sense to Hivers.
Travellers and referees alike can benefit from
learning more about the cultures they encounter,
and remembering that everyone does what they do
for a reason that makes sense at the time. Master
manipulators do make mistakes, of course, and a societyminded Droyne might occasionally go off task, but for the
most part the actions of these societies can be predicted
by outsiders even if they cannot be understood.

