C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

O

N

E

THE SOLOMANI
The word ‘Solomani’ has a number of different meanings,
most of which overlap. It roughly translates as ‘people
of Sol’ but this, too, has varying connotations. It can
refer to the humans who consider the Sol system to be
their spiritual home or a cultural and political movement
based around those people. The word Solomani is
sometimes also used to refer to a wider group of species
including uplifted creatures native to Terra, such as
Apes and Dolphins. It can be used, with equal fervour,
to describe those who belong to the Solomani culture or
those who belong to the Solomani race – these two are
not always the same thing. Indeed, for all they are the
original human genetic stock and their culture is largely
derived from the values of the societies of Old Earth, the
Solomani are one of the misunderstood racial or cultural
groups in Charted Space.

THE ORIGINAL HUMANS

Humans are the most common starfaring race in Charted
Space. There are at least 45 nearly identical subspecies,
each of which developed some form of civilisation on its
own homeworld. Of the Major Races of Charted Space
– defined as a culture that developed the jump drive
without outside assistance – three are human. These
are the Vilani, the Zhodani and the Solomani. The Vilani
and Zhodani were transplanted to other worlds by the
Ancients, whilst the Solomani developed on Earth, the
original homeworld of Humaniti.
By the time the Solomani ventured out into space
and developed the jump drive, other human groups
were already on the cosmic stage. Most notably, from
a Solomani point of view, the Vilani had created a
large empire whose borders lay close to Terra. Upon
encountering the Vilani, humans from Terra learned of
the existence of other human races. The collective term
‘Humaniti’ was applied to all human races and is still
used today.
Prior to contact with the Solomani the other races of
Humaniti had no good explanation for two fundamental
questions. How did so many genetically human races
come to evolve in widely separated star systems at
approximately the same time? Why were none of the
races of Humaniti biologically related to the other life
forms of their homeworlds?

4

