On Vland, the Vilani homeworld, no animal had any
closer relation to a human than a human did to a crab
or even a pine tree. There were few native diseases that
affected humans and none with animal vectors. Animals
were useless for comparative anatomical studies, nor
could they be used to test drugs or other biological
processes prior to their use on humans.
Similar limitations existed on the worlds of most other
races of Humaniti. As a result, the development of
medical and biological science in most non-Terran
human races was stunted. The minimal threat from
micro-organisms and parasites helped contribute
to higher overall health; the average Vilani had a
longer life expectancy than a Terran. Vilani medical
techniques also benefited from a reduced risk of postoperative infections.
The Solomani provided the answer to these questions.
Their homeworld was unique in possessing a complete
ecosystem directly related to humans along with fossil
and genetic evidence indicating they had naturally
evolved there. Verification was delayed by interstellar
warfare with the Vilani Empire and by the Long Night
that followed. Centuries later, after Solomani-Vilani
civilisation coalesced around the Third Imperium,
Magis Sergei haut-Devroe proposed his Solomani
Hypothesis. It theorised that Humaniti had originated
from early human stock on Terra that was transported
by a mysterious race to their respective homes some
300,000 to 320,000 years ago. A scientific mission to
Terra confirmed the genetic and fossil evidence. Further
corroborating evidence was provided by the existence of
similar Ancients ruins in many of the home systems of
Humaniti, all dating to the same period. Today, hautDevroe’s Solomani Hypothesis is generally accepted as
factual: Solomani are the original humans.
This may also explain why Terra developed an interstellar
civilisation much later than the Vilani, Zhodani and
some other minor races of Humaniti. It is possible
Terrans were held back because early civilisation led
to crowding in cities before modern sanitation could
be devised. On Terra, these towns and cities served as
prime breeding grounds for disease, resulting in massive
plagues that devastated entire populations. In contrast,
transplanted races such as the Vilani, Zhodani and even
the non-human but Terran-related Vargr could sustain
larger urban centres or colonise new continents on their
homeworlds without a risk of biological apocalypse.
Advocates of this theory compare the Terrans with
the Aslan and K’kree, who also achieved jump drive
technology relatively late and like Terra suffered
from multiple native diseases. Extreme anatomical
differences between humanity and Hivers, and lack of
data on the enigmatic Droyne, make it difficult to draw
comparisons with these alien species.

BASELINE HUMANS

The present-day Solomani race is a broad subspecies
that includes all terrestrial ethnic and racial groups. This
‘Solomani race’ can be considered the baseline humans.
Their physiology is the standard to which other human
species tend to be compared. In many cases there are
few differences but some human races have diverged
quite considerably.
The other races of Humaniti were taken from Terra in
the period before modern humans had fully evolved,
then spent over 300,000 years adapting to conditions
on their own homeworlds. Some were also subjected to
Ancient genetic engineering. As a result, there are minor
but real physiological differences between the various
human cousins, of a magnitude comparable to the
differences between modern man and the Neanderthals.
These distinctions can include differences in facial
features, colouring, hair, blood type, number of teeth,
circadian rhythm or even lifespan.
These differences are most notable in those human
races that adapted to planets with significantly
different environments, such as a lighter or heavier
gravity. However most human races can interbreed
with Solomani and each other. Some races, notably
the Vilani, can pass as Solomani in almost any
circumstances short of a detailed medical examination.
During the Rule of Man and Third Imperium widespread
intermarriage between Vilani and Solomani families
occurred, especially among the middle classes. Today,
the majority of the Imperial population blend into
homogenous mixed race. Only careful genetic testing
or the occasional appearance of blood types C and D,
which are non-existent in pure Solomani, can be used to
distinguish racial Solomani from the Imperial mix.
Distinct Solomani can still be identified among the
Imperial nobility, who keep careful track of lineage, and
on those world’s first settled by Terra or its daughter
colonies. The majority of worlds with distinct Solomani
populations exist in the area within 50 parsecs of Terra
and in particular on those worlds controlled by the
Solomani Confederation, where racial purity is a matter
of ideological importance.
Smaller clusters of worlds with pure Solomani
populations exist in isolated areas of Charted Space
far beyond the Solomani Sphere. These were settled by
colonisation ships launched from Terra long before the
Imperium was founded. Examples include the Sword
Worlds on the fringes of the Spinward Marches and the
Islands subsectors in the Reft sector.

5

