C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

A HISTORY OF

W

O

THE SOLOMANI
The early history of the Solomani is the history of all
humans in Charted Space. The divergence occurred
around 300,000 years ago, when early humans were
transplanted to other worlds. After this, each human
race had its own story whilst the Solomani continued
to develop on Terra.

THE EVOLUTION OF

HUMANITY

Classification of Terrestrial life is based on a series of
categories that show relationships to other life forms,
such as family, genus and species. A species classifies
members of a genus that can interbreed with each
other and is identified by two words: the genus, which
is capitalised and the species, which is not.
About 15 million years ago the family of hominids
– the great apes – evolved on Terra. These hominids
included several genera; among them gorillas,
chimpanzees and bonobos of genus Pan and orangutans of genus Pongo. Some four to six million years
ago the hominid genus Australopithecus (‘southern
ape’) diverged from a common ancestor with
chimpanzees. Australopiths shared traits with both
apes and modern humans, including simple tool use,
and spread widely through Africa.

A mere two and a half million years ago, what may
have been the first distinct humans appeared on Earth.
The Homo genus were related to Australopithecus but
characterised by increasingly greater brain capacity
and linguistic ability, an erect stance and use of
stone tools. The first true archaic species of early
Homo sapiens (‘wise man’) evolved between 500,000
and 200,000 years ago. They were nomadic huntergatherers, the ancestors and cousins of modern
humans – and through alien intervention, many other
races as well.

The Ancients and Humaniti

The Ancients were a mysterious, highly advanced
alien race that dominated Charted Space 300,000 to
400,000 years ago. They visited Terra about –310,000,
when the world was emerging from an ice age and
several subspecies of early Homo sapiens existed. It is
uncertain how long they stayed on Terra or how many
times they visited.
What is known is that the Ancients took samples of
Homo sapiens away with them to their own worlds.
They proceeded to breed humans for use as servants,
pets or both and established sizable populations on
perhaps 100 worlds throughout Charted Space,

Dating Systems

The present date is 1105 in the Imperial calendar or 5625 AD in the Terran dating system. The dates in this
chapter use Imperial dating unless otherwise indicated by AD or BC, which instead indicates a Terran year.
The following are correspondences between Imperial and Terran dates.
Imperial Year
0
871
1002
1105

Terran Year
4521 AD
5392 AD
5523 AD
5626 AD

Event
Founding date of the Third Imperium
Founding date of the Solomani Confederation
Siege of Terra; end of the Solomani Rim War
Present date

7

