including Vland and Zhodane. The Ancients performed
genetic experiments on some human stock, creating
variant human races. Today, all of these variant races
and the original humans are collectively known by the
term Humaniti.
The human populations maintained by the Ancients
flourished under their care for a few millennia, until
the Ancients destroyed their own civilisation in a
cataclysmic conflict known as the Final War. The
human populations were also devastated and reduced
to a primitive state. Nevertheless, some remnants
survived on at least 45 worlds. Forced to adapt to
diverse environments, these scattered orphans evolved
in different directions and became distinct subspecies
of Humaniti. Nevertheless, they remained biologically
members of the larger human species, most of them
still interfertile to a greater or lesser degree with Terran
humans and with each another.
The scattered human races – Humaniti – learned
to live on their homeworlds without assistance from
the Ancients. On some worlds, the technology of the
Ancients continued to function for a time. In some
cases this assisted the human population, in others
it terrorised them or threatened their very existence.
Eventually the installations and devices of the Ancients
wore out, leaving the humans and other transplanted
races to look after themselves.
The transplanted populations charted their own path
thereafter. Typically this was characterised by a slow
climb back to some form of civilisation, often with
multiple setbacks. Many of these human populations
were barbarians or low-technology, fragmented cultures
when found by those that had progressed more quickly.
The Zhodani of Zhodane and the Vilani of Vland both
developed the jump drive independently and created
interstellar communities which absorbed some of the
‘barbarians’ they encountered.
Had they been discovered at this time the Solomani
would have been just another barbarian-human group
but the stagnation of the Vilani Imperium resulted
in expansion halting before Terra was reached. It is
possible that explorers knew of the humans on that
unremarkable world to rimward of the border but there
was no incentive to study them or annex their world.
The idea that insignificance saved the Solomani from
conquest before the rise of civilisation on Terra is
unpalatable to many but it is the reality of the situation.

8

THE RISE OF THE TERRAN

CONFEDERATION

On Terra, Homo sapiens continued the slow evolution
into its modern form, Homo sapiens sapiens, which
became dominant on Terra about 50,000 years
ago. They developed increasingly sophisticated
tools, complex language, early art, music and the
beginnings of society. Between 30,000 and 100,000
years ago several cousin subspecies also existed, such
as Homo neanderthalensis. Terra was at that time in
the grip of an ice age. Existence was tough and the
ice sheets apparently destroyed all signs of visitation
by the Ancients.
By the Last Glacial Maximum the people of Earth were
recognisable as modern humans. As the ice retreated
and habitable land opened up, groups of huntergatherers exploited the new opportunities. Populations
increased and eventually people began to settle down
and work the land rather than following the food
sources. Around –13,000, advances in stone tools
made large-scale clearing of forests possible and settled
agriculture developed.
The transition from a nomadic to a settled lifestyle was
not immediate, nor always successful, but over time
permanent settlements began to appear. This allowed
more complex work to be undertaken, using tools made
first from copper then bronze. Trade was conducted over
distances that can seem incredible to modern people
and groupings emerged. Loose confederations of tribes
became kingdoms or empires, only to collapse and be
replaced by another.
There were setbacks and ‘dark ages’ in some regions
even as other civilisations were flourishing but the
overall trend was towards technological and social
progress. Nation-states emerged and grew in power,
and arguably it was rivalry between them that pushed
technological progress onward at an ever-increasing
rate. The nations of Terra eventually reached the point
where they could make war anywhere on the globe and
they did. After two recognised world wars and other
conflicts that encompassed multiple continents, the
space race began.
The Terran space age began when the first orbital
satellite, Sputnik I, was launched in –2564. This was
the Terran year 1957 AD, a time when the planet’s
population was still divided into rival national super
powers. Efforts to prevent another world war had

