produced an international framework for cooperation and
dispute resolution. This was called the United Nations
but in reality it was almost powerless and the nations
themselves were anything but united.
Initially, space operations were a competition between
two national super powers, the Soviet Union and United
States, who saw it as new frontier to be explored for
national prestige and a high ground whose control
provided military advantage. Spurred by national pride
and scientific curiosity, they sent humans into orbit,
launched explorers to walk on their moon and sent
probes throughout their solar system.
With technology limited to crude reaction drives,
manned space travel was immensely expensive.
Ambitious plans to build bases on Earth’s moon or
to colonise the nearby planet Mars were put forward
but struggled against both practical and financial
obstructions. It seemed that other worlds might remain
forever out of reach. However, the world was changing.
The superpowers could not align the immense cost
of missions to other planets with their agendas but
there was big money to be made in space. At first
it was commercial satellite launches that attracted
private corporations into the space arena but the quest
for reduced launch costs resulted in an ability to get
almost anything into orbit. Orbital space became
cluttered with debris and crowded with satellites.
Through this hazardous space-reef vessels plied
between space hotels for the super-rich, research
installations and even small factories.
Eventually, orbital traffic control was made the
responsibility of a new agency, the United Nations
Space Coordination Agency (UNSCA). UNSCA was
also given the thankless task of removing orbital
debris and enforcing international law in space. Over
time, it evolved into a promoter of multinational
scientific projects and a coordinating body for global
endeavours such as planetary defence against asteroid
strikes. UNSCA became a clearinghouse for scientific
and technical information on space operations and
techniques, some of which resulted in valuable patents.
Orbital development ushered in a renewed age of
manned deep space exploration. In the middle of
the 21st century, small but permanent bases were
established on Luna, the asteroid belt and later Mars.
Some were national ventures, while others were crewed
on a cooperative international basis under the auspices

of UNSCA. Industry also began to venture into deep
space, first in the transport and space tourism sectors,
then asteroid mining and manufacturing.
UNSCA expanded further to monitor and supervise all
space traffic. It also came to jointly hold patents on
improvements to spacecraft equipment and microgravity
industrial processes and their royalties helped fund
the agency. Additional income came from performing
services associated with debris removal, traffic control
and equipment inspections, and from contributions
from national members. Space was the new frontier
for economic endeavour and the cost of going it alone
was such that contributions to UNSCA were seen as an
attractive option.
The result was that UNSCA became a powerful political
entity in its own right, influencing and shaping the
policies of Earth-bound governments. It ceased to be
merely a facilitator for the activities of others and began
undertaking projects of its own. UNSCA established
research facilities throughout within the Solar System:
a high-temperature laboratory on Mercury, a solar
power station in Earth orbit, an electronics lab on Luna
investigating the new field of gravitic technology and
an engineering station in the asteroid belt. Originally
a mining facility specialising in rare earth materials,
its focus soon turned to study of exotic propulsion
technologies that earlier work at Luna had pioneered. It
was UNSCA’s breakthrough physics lab in the asteroid
belt that developed the manoeuvre drive thruster.
The m-drive powered Earth’s new generation of deep
space craft, opening up the solar system and reducing
travel times from months to days, permitting the design
of true spaceships. Vessels with the size and reliability
of ocean going vessels replaced the slow, delicate and
cramped solar sail and reaction drive craft that came
before. Expansion throughout the solar system was rapid
and the possibility of visiting other star systems began
to seem feasible.
The m-drive permitted long periods of continuous
acceleration, allowing a vessel to reach a speed whereby
an interstellar voyage might be feasible. It might
still take decades, or even centuries, but for the first
time the stars were within reach of Terran humans.
Nations and multinational alliances planned interstellar
missions. Terra’s first sublight starship, the European
Union’s Europa, was a giant vessel by earlier standards,
intended for a multi-year voyage to Alpha Centauri.
Designs for similar craft followed.

9

