Royalties for the new UNSCA gravitic and thruster
technology patents covered the running costs UNSCA
and made a substantial contribution toward the parent
United Nations budget. Some historians cite this as the
beginning of the move towards a ‘world government’
on Terra; one governing the interaction between the
population of Earth and the wider universe rather than
being primarily concerned with interactions between
Terran nation-states. The UN was not, at that time, a
government as such but it finally possessed the power
and prestige to take a lead in affairs on Terra rather than
being beholden to its largest contributors.
UNSCA’s new wealth helped fund further scientific
research. In 2087 AD (-2439) this paid off with the
most significant scientific discovery in humanity’s
history: the jump drive. UNSCA’s asteroid lab, chosen
for its ease of studying micro gravity fluctuations during
advanced gravitic module research, had turned out to
be the ideal location for conducting interstellar drive
experimentation. An environment far from any planetary
body was required in order that the space-folding effects
of jump drive could be achieved.
The fact that the strange new jump drive permitted
faster than light travel was not immediately apparent.
The first jumps took place over interplanetary distances.
For a voyage between Ceres and Earth or Mars, the oneweek travel time was actually slower than a constant
acceleration trip using the newly developed manoeuvre
drive. Moreover, some attempts at greater jumps ended
in disaster, due to the then-limited understanding of the
risks of jumping in proximity to a world’s gravity. Even
the first interstellar missions continued to be built with
older m-drive propulsion over the next few decades.
As the 21st century came to a close, a spirit of
optimism and adventure seemed to have taken hold of
humanity. Scientific wonders like flying cars, teleporting
spaceships, cryogenic sleep and advanced nuclear
fusion had all became realities. Human colonies and
commerce sprouted like weeds throughout the planets
and planetoids of the solar system. Old restrictions
were cast away and experiments were performed in
fields once considered taboo, such as using genetic
engineering to enhance the intelligence of smarter
animals such as chimps and dolphins. The Europa
mission was followed by the launch of other generation
starships, in a daring effort to conquer the distant
stars at sublight speeds. It was in this atmosphere that
humanity discovered it was not alone.

10

First Contact

UNSCA had licensed its jump drive to its national
members, in particular the United States government.
They began testing its capabilities, launching missions
farther and farther out, to Uranus, Neptune, Pluto and
the cometary Oort Cloud. It took several years before
a US Space Force team based at Luna attempted the
first interstellar mission. Since the nearest stars were
just out of range of the then-available jump technology,
they established an intermediate stopover and refuelling
point at about one parsec out.
Partly due to political pressure to not upstage the
ongoing Europa sublight mission that was still voyaging
to Alpha Centauri, the US mission chose as their
destination Barnard’s Star, the second closest system
to Sol. StarLeaper 1 set out in 2096 AD (-2425)
and returned less than a year later. Originally, their
homecoming was planned as a triumph, a testimony
to American ingenuity and pioneer spirit. Instead, they
returned in secret, reporting to an emergency session
of UNSCA’s governing board. StarLeaper 1 had made
first contact with an alien culture: intelligent extraterrestrials that were undeniably human beings!
Barnard was the site of a small Vilani prospecting
base, a minor outpost of the Vilani Empire: the Ziru
Sirka or Grand Empire of Stars. Many thousands of
years ago, the Vilani branch of Humaniti, placed on
the planet Vland by the Ancients, had invented jump
drive themselves. They used this technology to expand
through a vast region of space, encountering conquering
and assimilating many other human and non-human
alien races in the process.
The Vilani Consolidation Wars lasted 1,000 years but
once no independent states remained on the Ziru
Sirka’s borders, their empire ceased to expand. Its
furthest rimward provincial border terminated just
parsecs away from Terra. Another dozen centuries of
peace and prosperity raised Vilani civilisation to a
new plateau. While interstellar exploration had all but
ceased, social and economic integration continued
and standards of living and technology reached a
uniformly comfortable level across the Empire. Stability
was emphasised over innovation. Scientific research
ground to a halt, as Vilani culture became locked
into heredity caste system. Working under the distant
direction of the Shadow Emperor, giant corporate
bureaux supervised all aspects of government, trade
and industry. The Ziru Sirka’s provincial sectors closest
to Terra fell under the control of Sharurshid, a bureau
specialising in trade and transport.

