The tales the American astronauts heard of the size and
power of the Vilani Empire were almost unbelievable but
it was obvious that the aliens were stronger than any
one Terran nation could ever deal with. Joint UNSCA
expeditions were quickly dispatched to negotiate
with the Vilani leaders on Barnard and later on the
Vilani-settled worlds of Gashidda and Nusku. A crash
programme was also launched to settle Barnard despite
the Vilani prospectors’ presence there.
It came as a terrible shock to Terrans that the majority
of worlds beyond a few parsecs distance from Sol were
already claimed by the Ziru Sirka. Popular sentiment,
quickly echoed by politicians, held it was unfair for
aliens from distant stars to claim worlds so close to
Terra. Individual nations expanded their space forces
and began building military and civilian starships, even
as a nervous trade began with the Vilani. This exchange
was lucrative. While Terra lagged about two Tech Levels
behind, at TL9 to the Vilani Empire’s TL11, many Terran
medical and biotechnological goods and even some
food products, were superior to what the Vilani had to
offer. The technological advantage held by the Vilani
would prove fleeting, as Terran engineers quickly began
to reverse engineer Imperial technologies. The reasons

behind Vilani backwardness in biotechnology was not
immediately understood but its implications for balance
of trade were enthusiastically exploited.
Mercantile and scientific contact between both
races brought understanding and prosperity but also
exposed Terrans to the Vilani ruling caste. Their
condescending sense of superiority toward a singleworld race on a distant provincial frontier was strong
enough to transcend cultural barriers. Terran traders
and diplomats made little progress at receiving formal
recognition from the Vilani aristocracy. Instead, they
defied Vilani bureaux-imposed regulations to make
their own trade agreements with whatever Imperial
worlds they liked and began to reach out to dissident
factions within the empire.
There was a growing sense among both Terran nations
and supranational bodies like UNSCA that it would
only be a matter of time before the Vilani attempted
to forcefully incorporate Terra into the Ziru Sirka. The
Barnard and Alpha Centauri outposts were reinforced
and then fortified, and the growing national star forces
began preparing for interstellar operations. Even as the
Vilani Empire slept Terra prepared – with increasing
urgency – for an interstellar war.

11

