The First Interstellar War

War was perhaps inevitable sooner or later and the
question of ‘when’ was answered at Barnard in -2408
(2118 AD). A caravan of Vilani merchant starships
ignored traffic control signals from the American base,
leading to an exchange of fire. Two Vilani vessels were
destroyed. War had begun but the attitude of each side
to the conflict was very different. To the people of Terra,
this was likely to be an all-out battle for survival against
tremendous odds. To the Vilani Imperium, however, it
was nothing more than a small border incident.
At first, the Vilani Empire was unaware that a war had
broken out; the very idea the insignificant Terrans might
actually consider taking on the Vilani Imperium was
laughable. To the Imperium, the incident was merely
the sort of thing that happened from time-to-time; some
upstart world had transgressed and needed correcting.
Thus a punitive expedition was launched, rather than
a war-fighting force. The operational model was welltried and had become traditional in these matters. A
show of force, perhaps a skirmish, then the dictation
of surrender and reparation terms. Only escort-sized
warships were deployed, without accompanying assault
ships and ground troops.
The conflict went as the Vilani force expected, at least
at first. They met and defeated the Terran squadrons
in space, then bombarded the Barnard’s Star outposts.
Confident that these barbarians had learned their lesson,
the Imperial fleet then withdrew rather than pressing
on to Terra. This was fortunate for the Terrans, who had
no experience in interstellar warfare, lacked unity of
command and had deployed a technologically inferior
fleet. Their several national squadrons had fought
bravely but without coordination. Predictably, they were
overwhelmed without difficulty by the confident and
well-organised Vilani force.
The ‘barbarians’ learned lessons from the conflict but
not the ones the Imperials hoped. Instead they turned
their efforts to countering the superiority of the Vilani
ships. Although technologically inferior, the Terran vessels
were optimised and commanded with a courage born of
desperation. Designs were refined and tactics honed in a
series of skirmishes between national forces and elements
of the Vilani fleet. This had the effect of confusing the
Vilani commanders, as they thought the Terrans were
a unified government. Ships of one nationality used
different tactics and weaponry to those of others, making
it difficult to choose which of the traditional doctrines
would be the most effective. The Vilani Imperium of
that time was hidebound and inflexible, having long ago
abandoned aggressive initiative for careful adherence to
tried-and-tested tactics.

12

It was four years before another fleet engagement was
fought; a battle that the Terran forces had been training
for and even rehearsing for many months. Predictable
tactics placed elements of the Vilani fleet in a position
to be overwhelmed by massed firepower whilst other
units were drawn off by deception or hit-and-run attacks.
The battle was costly for both sides but the Terrans were
willing to take the losses and keep fighting – or more
accurately they thought they had no choice but to do so.
For their part, the Vilani officials commanding the
punitive expedition were dismayed at the losses they
had received and did not consider defeating the Terrans
to be worth the cost. They were already in the awkward
position of having to explain the losses they had taken,
which was politically damaging. Faced with a choice
between battling on with what they had or the humiliation
of requesting additional forces to deal with some trivial
barbarians, they chose what seemed like the best option.
The Terrans needed time to make good their losses;
the Vilani commanders wanted to end the fighting and
claim they had won to avoid damage to their reputations.
Thus an unofficial armistice was agreed and both sides
stepped back. Peace of a sort returned to the region in
-2400. It was both uneasy and short.

The Unification of Terra

Their initial defeat taught the nations of Terra that
there is no substitute for a unified high command and
political structure. In the course of the three decades
after the first Interstellar War, the United Nations
transformed itself from a debating society into a true
world government with the primary purpose of defending
the solar system and the Human race against the Vilani
Empire. To create such a government the Secretary
General was given far more extensive powers and
recognised as the supreme executive leader of Terra. The
Secretariat, previously an advisory group, was made the
legislative body and took over most of the powers of the
old Security Council. The General Assembly was retained
as a forum for debate of issues but had no executive
power. The Security Council was disbanded.
Colonies on other worlds, initially Luna, Mars, Mercury,
Barnard and Alpha Centauri, were granted seats in the
United Nations as well. With their admission, the UN
formally changed its name, first to the United Worlds,
then to the Terran Confederation. Some degree of
autonomy was granted to the member worlds off Terra
but the existing government structure of the United
Nations continued to be the common legislative body for
the Confederation. Founded in -2398, it proved a hardy
structure, surviving for centuries until the end of the
Interstellar Wars. Even thousands of years later, its name
remains a powerful symbol to the Solomani people.

