The Second and Third Interstellar Wars

Terra benefited from the sheer size and structure of the
Ziru Sirka, which was more concerned with internal
politics than some minor incident on the borders.
The provincial Vilani administration was charged with
winning wars and maintaining the power of the Empire
but operated under a limited budget. Appeals to higher
levels of government and ultimately to the Shadow
Emperor were costly in terms of personal power and
prestige, and so generally avoided. In consequence,
the provincial governor (Vilani saarpuhii) often
compromised, choosing to accept a truce with some
territorial losses while claiming victory for any tactical
successes in reports to the emperor.
The Second and Third Interstellar Wars were marked
by see-saw exchanges of territory, with the majority
of the fighting in the Dingir and Sol subsectors. The
most dangerous moment came during the height of
the Third Interstellar War, when Imperial forces broke
through and Terra itself was besieged. Despite a nuclear
bombardment that killed tens of millions, the homeworld
refused to surrender. The overextended Imperial fleet
was unable to capture the planet and withdrew. The
attack on Terra was a turning point in the Interstellar
Wars, convincing the population of Terra that there was
no turning back; they must triumph or perish.

Empty Peace and a Return to War

The Third Interstellar War was followed by an extended
armistice known as the Empty Peace. During this
period the Terran Confederation expanded its colonies,
administered and settled captured Vilani worlds and
expanded their interstellar commerce. Not only did the
captured Vilani worlds expand the Terrans’ industrial
base directly, it also became possible to examine the
whole spectrum of Vilani technology rather than trying to
reverse-engineer a few captured devices.
The Terran political and military leaders grew
complacent during the Empty Peace, believing the
Terran Confederation could securely hold the territory
it controlled and that their military could deter further
aggression. They were taken by surprise when a dynamic
Vilani provincial governor built up her forces and
launched a carefully planned offensive. This Fourth
Interstellar War went badly for Terran Confederation, who
lost territory and ended up suing for terms in -2346.
This was again granted by the Vilani government, who
believed they had finally delivered a decisive check to
Terran ambition.
Instead, the Terran Confederation embarked on a crash
rearmament program. Within three years Terran fleets
were on the offensive again, repudiating the terms of

the peace treaty and swiftly regaining most of the lost
territory in what became the Fifth Interstellar War.
Losses due to heavy fighting eventually stopped further
Terran advances, resulting in an uneasy peace.

Terra Triumphant

Despite occasional reverses of fortune the Terran
Confederation steadily grew in size and power during
the Interstellar Wars. Its successes were made possible
by political limitations within the structure of the Ziru
Sirka. Although the Terran Confederation devoted its
entire resources to the war, the Vilani deployed only
those ships and troops that were available to the
provincial governor – who usually had other concerns.
For the first six Interstellar Wars, the central Vilani
government was always too distracted managing other
problems across its immense empire to consider using
its full power to crush the Terran Confederation. The
provincial governors, for their part, were reluctant to
request assistance in case it made them seem inept
or weak. Thus the Terrans fought with all their might
against a fraction of the Imperium’s strength.
Military power was not the Terran Confederation’s
only weapon. The Ziru Sirka was at its heart a
series of vast corporate bureaucracies built around
conservative monopolistic practices. In periods of
peace between the wars, Terran free traders and
smugglers ranged through the rimward provinces of
the empire, disrupting ancient economic systems and
establishing relationships with political minorities
and non-Vilani races throughout the Imperium. Terran
diplomats exploited these relationships, causing
social shockwaves that rippled through the empire
and winning allies who would provide crucial support
in the final struggle. Billions of dissidents seized the
opportunity granted by Terran victories to take up arms
against their own empire. This fact was often forgotten
in later Solomani propaganda, which depicted Terra as
fighting alone against the universe.
As the struggle continued, the Vilani provincial
government began to lose control over its own territory.
The Sixth Interstellar War (-2327) was begun not
by the empire but by pirates raiding into the Terran
Confederation. This nevertheless provoked a massive
Terran response: a full-scale invasion of Vilani space.
The loss of two key worlds forced the Vilani provincial
government to seek a new peace treaty, in -2321.
With major systems now fallen and even the provincial
capital at Dingir now under threat, the Vilani provincial
government took the unprecedented step of admitting
they could no longer handle the Terran problem. They
dispatched a delegation to the capital at Vland to
request direct assistance from their emperor.

13

