14

The emperor was slow to respond. Other provinces were
causing problems, with the coreward sectors – closer
to the capital on Vland – under sustained assault from
Vargr raiders. Help eventually arrived in -2317, in the
form of several squadrons of Imperial battleships. Their
arrival triggered the Seventh Interstellar War but even
this powerful force failed to have a decisive impact.
In fact, the weakened Vilani provincial economy was
barely able to support and repair these reinforcements.
The Terran Confederation retaliated by constructing
its own capital ships. Despite some initial military
successes by the Vilani, a period of stalemate was
followed by a strong Terran counterattack over a wide
front. The Vilani province was in no state to fight
a long war and again suffered humiliating defeat,
with half of the Dingir subsector falling to the Terran
Confederation. The Seventh Interstellar War ended in
-2308 with another armistice.

This crushing victory finally forced the central
government of the Ziru Sirka to give full attention to
Terra. The Vilani Core Fleet, invincible for over 2,000
years, advanced to seek a decisive battle. The Terrans
were waiting, with the brilliant Admiral Albadawi once
again in overall command. The combined fleets of Terra
and Vega slowed the Vilani advance with hit-and-run
tactics and then sprang their trap. Terran engineers had
recently refitted their ships with two new inventions,
jump-3 technology and meson guns. The newer warships
of the Terran fleet used their superior strategic mobility
to mount a surprise attack and meson gun fire blasted
apart the enemy’s most powerful warships. The Vilani
military suffered the worst disaster of its history, losing
90% of their fleet. This time the Terran Confederation
did not accept a Vilani surrender, maintaining a
relentless pursuit that destroyed much of the remaining
Imperial strength.

The Eighth Interstellar War began after the Vilani had
mustered sufficient capital ships to attempt another
offensive. It failed. Led by their inspired strategist
Admiral Manuel Albadawi, Terran Confederation fleets
counterattacked in a multi-pronged campaign that cut
off their opponent’s supply lines and forced the main
Vilani fleet to surrender. Encouraged by the Terran
successes, the Vegans, a non-human subject race of
the Vilani, now rose up in revolt. The Eighth War ended
with the Vilani Empire ceding all its provincial territory
rimward of Vega to the Terran Confederation and its
new ally.

This Ninth Interstellar War was an overwhelming
victory for the Terran Confederation. The Ziru Sirka
abandoned most of what is now the Solomani Rim.
From this point on, the Terran Confederation was
almost constantly on the offensive, further wars
broken off only when the Confederation needed to
consolidate its most recent conquests.
As Terran forces advanced out of the Vilani rimward
provinces, the theatre of conflict expanded. Peace
and war blurred together; new wars would sometimes

