break out in distant regions even before the existence
of a peace treaty could be communicated to respective
capitals. The governing Secretariat of the Terran
Confederation, still dominated by the citizens of Earth,
also found it increasingly difficult to maintain control of
its far-flung colonies. Many were now distinct societies
in their own right. They supported the war effort and
provided the majority of naval personnel for Confederation
fleets but came to resent policies that placed Terra first
and seemed out of touch with colonial interests.
Terran society was profoundly affected by two centuries
of interstellar war. Although national distinctions
remained, citizens gradually came to see themselves
as Terrans first and national citizens second. By the
time the Interstellar Wars against the Ziru Sirka were
over, Terra was a united world operating under a single
government, ready to extend its rule beyond its own
gravity well and star system. This was a source of both
great strength and weakness. A people who still thought
of themselves in terms of a single world, however
confident and united they were, were ill-prepared
to govern a growing confederation of increasingly
independent colonies. They were singularly unprepared
to rule the Vilani grand empire of stars.
Historians simply refer to the Interstellar Wars after
the Ninth by the indeterminate variable N. Regardless
of nomenclature the Nth Interstellar War (-2235 to
-2219) ended the centuries of conflict with the Ziru
Sirka. Terran and allied fleets advanced deep into Vilani
territory, reaching as far as the Massilia sector before the
empire ultimately collapsed.

THE RULE OF MAN

The fall of the Ziru Sirka after the Nth Interstellar War
left the Terrans with a formidable task; one that many
historians believe was impossible from the outset. For
more than 1,200 years the Vilani had enforced an
uneasy peace that kept their many subject systems
under centralised political and economic control.
Although the price of stability had been cultural rigidity
and technological stagnation, the Vilani bureaux had
centuries of practice in the art of governing an immense
interstellar empire. The administrators of the Terran
Confederation were now called upon to take on that role
following a scant 200 years of such experience on a far
smaller stage, in an economy that had been devastated
by war.
The Terran Confederation lacked the structure to even
attempt governance. Instead, the Terran Navy tried.
Between -2219 and -2204 more than 100,000 Terran
Confederation naval officers were sent throughout the
defeated Vilani Empire. Their mission was to take

control of the reins of government, provide direction
to local bureaucracies and bureaux, and to keep the
peace. Their numbers were wholly inadequate to the
task at hand. Terran ensigns were sometimes assigned
to administer entire planets; warship captains who
previously commanded nothing larger than a light
cruiser were placed in charge of subsectors.
Fortunately, the majority of the exhausted Vilani
population readily accepted Terran rule. The Terran
Confederation’s military forces, who had previously
known the Vilani as enemies and competitors, now
learned to treat them as partners and sympathise with
them as people. Between -2219 and -2204, the Terran
Navy worked tirelessly in cooperation with surviving
elements of the Vilani bureaucracy to prevent the empire
sliding into chaos. With the cooperation and survival
of Vilani governmental and mercantile structures they
prevented an immediate socio-economic collapse that
would have cost untold lives.
Many politicians back on Terra did not appreciate the
sheer scale of the Vilani Empire and the challenges the
Navy faced in its administration. In -2204, believing
the immediate crisis was over, the Terran Secretariat
narrowly voted to transfer control of the conquered
territories directly to Terra. The Vilani bureaux were
ordered dissolved and the empire incorporated into the
Terran Confederation as a subject territory. This move
threatened to undo all the work that the Terran Navy
had done.
The Secretariat’s policy was widely denounced as
disastrous by political and business leaders in the
Terran colonies and even by many opposition politicians
on Terra itself. In the Terran Confederation Navy it
was seen as a suicide pact. To stave off renewed
economic catastrophe and a potential civil war, the
supreme commander of Terra’s forces, Admiral Hiroshi
Estigarribia, staged a military coup. Supported by
the colonials who manned the majority of Terra’s
fleet, Estigarribia declared the dissolution of the
Terran Confederation. Henceforth, both the Terran
Confederation and the Vilani Empire would be forged
together into a single interstellar state, the Rule of Man,
whose government would be dedicated to serving the
common interests of all Humaniti.
The new capital of the Rule of Man was Terran Fleet
Headquarters at Dingir, seven parsecs from Terra.
However, the bureaucratic centre of the empire initially
remained on Vland, deep in the heart of the former
Vilani Empire. The Rule of Man formally recognised
that Vilani institutions would be preserved within a
Terran-led government.

15

