Terrans Become Solomani

The term Solomani first appeared in history at
the beginning of the Rule of Man. It is traced to a
holographic recording made by Admiral Estigarribia in
which he addressed the people of the Vilani worlds in
their own language, to introduce his new regime and
its ideals. In searching for a Vilani-resonant term that
referred to humans from Earth, the Admiral decided not
to use Terran, tied as it was to the Terran Confederation
that had just overcome them. ‘Terran’ had also lost
favour with colonials, who no longer accepted central
control by the mother planet.
The word he used instead, Solomani, can variously be
interpreted as Men of Sol, the Only Men, Sole Men or
even All Men. From context in his speech, the Admiral
may have meant a more inclusive All Men. However, in
popular usage it became accepted during the Rule of
Man as a synonym for the branch of Humaniti that had
evolved on Terra and expanded through the stars, now
distinct from the world and inhabitants of Terra itself.
Similarly, the sector containing Terra, Vega and the old
Vilani Rim province that the Terran Confederation had
battled would become known as the Solomani Rim.

The Imperial Tradition and the
Solomani Migration

Estigarribia was an autocrat in all but name. The
military-led Rule of Man swept away Terra’s tradition of
republican government at the interstellar level. Earth’s
pre-star flight history had a rich tradition of accepting
dictators and kings; the Vilani wanted another emperor
and the Terran military wanted one of their own in
charge. When Estigarribia died, he was succeeded by
his chief of staff, who crowned himself Emperor Hiroshi
II. He transferred governmental functions from Vland
and Dingir to Hub in the Ershur subsector, in the more
centrally located Massilia sector. This world, later
renamed Khaggushus, would remain the capital of the
Rule of Man over the next four centuries.
The first centuries of the Rule of Man were marked
by waves of Solomani emigrants who left Terra and its
older colonies and spread throughout the Vilani worlds.
They came as administrators, bureaucrats, consultants,
engineers, leaders and scientists. They found themselves
struggling with the same problems of size and stagnation
that had fatally weakened the Ziru Sirka. The Vilani
had achieved stability through a rigid caste system. The
Solomani destroyed the old ways but failed to establish
a true social foundation to replace it. On some worlds
the Solomani simply became a new amateur governing
caste, with Vilani rigid social hierarchies translated into

16

old Earth titles of nobility. On others, a hybrid society
slowly evolved and Solomani emigrants were partially
absorbed into the older, and in some ways richer, Vilani
culture they found themselves submerged in.
Not all Solomani experienced such assimilation,
however. Terra and its older colonies retained their
Earth-derived culture, barely modified by Vilani contact.
Throughout the entire Interstellar Wars period and much
of the Rule of Man, these worlds continued to send
expeditions discover and settle on worlds that the Vilani
themselves had never visited. They were scattered in a
wide arc to rimward of the old borders of the Ziru Sirka
and many had been founded by groups that deliberately
sought independence.
The creation of the Rule of Man had forced the
dissolution of the Terran Confederation but Terra
remained an influential and wealthy world and strong
bonds still existed between the mother planet and
her original colonies. In -1690, Terra and her nearest
colonies formed a loose corporate trade association,
the Terran Mercantile Community. The Rule of Man
prohibited its members from building private interstellar
navies. The Terran Mercantile Community circumvented
these restrictions by building a merchant fleet that
trod a fine line between commercial ships and naval
vessels. The ships carried enough armament to protect
themselves from pirates and raiders but not enough
to classify them as naval vessels. Even as its political
importance declined, the merchant fleet made Terra
and the other member worlds in the TMC a formidable
commercial force. Its merchant adventurers ranged
far beyond the worlds of the TMC, keeping in sporadic
contact with some of the outposts of Solomani
settlement outside the Rule of Man.

SOLOMANI IN THE

LONG NIGHT

Many historians see the Rule of Man as stillborn. The
transfusion of Solomani blood into Vilani society may
have prevented collapse for four centuries but could not
fix a terminal disease. The Vilani Empire might have
lingered for centuries more but the shock of Terran
conquest was too great. After 2,000 years, despite the
best and worst efforts of its citizens, the collapse of
interstellar civilisation was unstoppable. The Twilight of
a pending dark age was followed by a Long Night.
Decline was apparent as early as -1900, with parts
of the empire falling into a multi sector recession.
Attempts to patch the system slowed but did not arrest
the economic and social problems. They merely made

