the final collapse more sudden and total. In -1776 the
central treasury at Hub refused to honour a monetary
issue of the branch treasury at Antares. The resulting
loss of confidence in the basic financial systems
underpinning large-scale interstellar commerce signified
the beginning of the end.
The collapse of the financial system of the central Rule
of Man government signalled the beginning of a new
dark age for the peoples subject to them. Net growth
of industrial output throughout the entire Rule of Man
became negative. Factories closed more rapidly than
new ones could open. The empire broke into factions led
by rival emperors and admirals with competing claims,
adding the scourge of war and fragmenting the Navy’s
fleets. As authority broke down, interstellar trading ships
and isolated worlds were regularly menaced by pirates
and rogue navies that were pirates in all but name.
Eventually there was so little commerce that not even
piracy could be sustained.
The chief result of the Long Night was to cut off
interstellar communication and trade. Worlds were
isolated on their own or in tiny groups with close stellar
neighbours. Technology levels declined. The great fleets
of the Terran Navy and Vilani Empire could no longer be
repaired and were cannibalised for spare parts.
Even as the Rule of Man withered, other alien races
moved into the vacuum left by its implosion. To
spinward and coreward, the Zhodani and alien Vargr
gradually expanded their own spheres of influence.
Aslan explorers and traders wandered through the
rimward sectors of the former Rule of Man territory,
sometimes coming into contact or conflict with isolated
far-flung Solomani colonies. First contacts were made
between exploring Hivers and the Solomani worlds (in
-1802) and with the K’kree (in -200).
Solomani populations did as well as most during the
early Twilight years and suffered less than some in
the Long Night. Isolation caused significant cultural
drift in many cases but in others it helped preserve
the traditions of Old Earth. On worlds settled entirely
by Solomani, this often meant that echoes of Terran
ethnic cultures and languages survived for longer than
they would have if the worlds had remained part of a
cosmopolitan interstellar state. On those worlds where
Solomani had settled among Vilani or other non-Terran
populations, they became more immersed in local
customs and culture and often intermarried with them.
Exceptions were typically members of the ruling class,
who sometimes held themselves aloof.

Terra itself was a naturally rich and hospitable planet,
so its inhabitants were affected far less than worlds
that depended on imported goods or resources. As
interstellar trade collapsed there was economic hardship
but the Terran Mercantile Community still had a star
fleet to patrol its systems and to replace the Rule of
Man navy. The TMC’s armed merchant fleet cushioned
the blow of the Long Night and left Terra to survive
in relative comfort and even maintain a small trading
community extending over about 10 parsecs. Later in
the Long Night, the Terran Mercantile Community took
over political responsibilities. In -1110 it reorganised
into an interstellar state known as the Old Earth Union.
Other Solomani splinter states of the Rule of Man also
emerged in this period. Two of those in the Solomani
Rim were the Easter Concord and the Dingir League.
Similar small interstellar communities were created
in the Long Night by other human and non-human
governments but each kept more or less to itself.
Between those governments’ borders was a lawless
waste open to piracy and raiding by any who ventured
into it. Many worlds regressed to a pre-star flight
level and some planetary populations collapsed into
barbarism or died out. Others established small pocket
empires, often controlled by degraded remnants of the
Rule of Man’s military forces.

Solomani and the Aslan Border Wars

If the Long Night was a dark age for Solomani and
Vilani, it was a renaissance for the Aslan. Like the
Terrans, they were latecomers to the game of empire.
They benefited from the power vacuum left behind by
the conquest of the Ziru Sirka and the collapse of the
Rule of Man.
Between -1180 until c. 380, the Solomani colonies that
had been established far from Terra in the Iwahfuah,
Reaver’s Deep, Dark Nebula, Ustral Quadrant and
Magyar sectors came under increasing pressure from
the expanding Aslan. This was not a conflict of one
huge empire against another. Instead, independent
land-hungry Aslan clans fought, schemed against and
allied with tiny Human pocket empires that had been
isolated by distance and the Long Night from the rest of
humanity. Some Solomani colonies took on Aslan Ihatei
as mercenary soldiers, trading land for protection. Aslan
also provided aid to migratory Solomani groups, such as
the Sword World colonists, who sought passage into and
through Aslan territory to settle in more distant reaches
of Charted Space.

17

