The fortunes of the competing races waxed and
waned but over time the Aslan gradually absorbed or
assimilated the old Solomani colonies in Iwahfuah and
most of those in the Dark Nebula and Ustral Quadrant.
Solomani continued to resist the Aslan tide in the
Reaver’s Deep and Magyar sectors.

SOLOMANI AND THE

THIRD IMPERIUM

The end of the Long Night happened in different
places at different times. For some non-human races,
such as the Aslan, it was not a night at all but rather a
shining period of cultural renaissance. There were false
dawns as worlds reached out to the stars again, only to
encounter difficulties or exhaust themselves and retreat
back into isolationism.
A new human interstellar civilisation first successfully
coalesced around the Sylean Federation in the Core
sector. Its capital, Sylea, was a world with a mixed
Vilani and Solomani population, retaining an aristocratic
system of government linked to the traditions of the
Rule of Man. Under the dynamic leadership of Cleon
Zhunastu, a nobleman and industrialist, the Federation
extended its borders with amazing speed. The traditional
combination of naval and economic power was sufficient
to secure control over nearby worlds but Cleon knew very
well that an interstellar state needed more than power to
endure. It needed an identity.

18

The new Imperium, like the Sylean Federation and
the Rule of Man before it, was built on a foundation
of a Solomani aristocracy. However, less emphasis was
placed on race and bloodline than on loyalty, ability
and wealth. It was nominally egalitarian despite the
prevalence of individuals with Solomani ancestry in
the upper levels of social, government and economic
hierarchies throughout the Imperium. Citizens began
to call themselves Imperials and intermarriage between
Vilani and Solomani, especially in the ordinary middle
classes, was very common.

Reintegration of Solomani Worlds

Unlike the Rule of Man, the early Third Imperium was
expansionist. Its newly formed Imperial Interstellar
Scout Service ranged far and wide from Sylea in all
directions. Their first explorers reached the Solomani
Rim as early as 100 and were pleased to discover the
Solomani homeworld Terra had survived the Long Night
with its civilisation intact.
At this point in time the Solomani Hypothesis that Terra
was the original homeworld of all Humaniti had been
introduced by Imperial scholars led by Magis hautDevroe, although at the time they worked only from
secondary sources. Since the new Third Imperium traced
its legitimacy to the Rule of Man, this was of political,
as well as academic, interest and widespread Solomani
influence in the nobility further increased its credibility.

Cleon Zhunastu would have to do more than create a
framework to govern the worlds he now controlled and
he was aided in this by a fortunate accident of history.
In the latter days of the Rule of Man, rival emperors had
set up bases on various worlds, one of which was Sylea.
This imperial fragment was no more or less legitimate
than any other but it provided a link to the Rule of Man
and thence to the Vilani Imperium.

As capital of the Old Earth Union, Terra was just one
of several Rim states that existed within the bounds
of the old Terran Confederation; others included the
Easter Concord and Dingir League. Similar but smaller
Solomani states existed in neighbouring sectors, such as
the Consolidation of Turin and Protectorate of Cthonia
within Alpha Crucis. By 200 most of the worlds of the
Solomani Rim were trading among themselves and
sporadically with a few far-ranging Imperial merchants.

Drawing legitimacy from this link, Cleon crowned
himself Cleon I of the Third Imperium. His was not
a new empire, he claimed, but the continuation of
the previous ones. Adept use of symbology created
resonance in the minds of the citizens, who for the
most part welcomed the idea of a revived Imperium.
The coronation year was declared as Year Zero of a new
Imperial calendar and after 30 years of expansion the
Sylean Federation was transformed into the basis of
a new empire. Its citizens were inspired by Zhunastu
propaganda to expect a golden age of growth and
expansion, returning civilisation to the stars. Any ruler
could have sold that message but such was the talent of
Cleon I and the enthusiasm of those who followed him
that it became a reality.

These Rim States were a great prize for the Imperium,
collectively possessing greater populations, economic
power and military strength than the pocket empires
it had previously absorbed. Beyond this, Terra itself
remained a potent symbol; its peaceful integration into
the Third Imperium would be another sign of its power
and legitimacy as the one true successor of the Ziru
Sirka and the Rule of Man. Unfortunately, assimilation
was complicated. The Easter Concord had retained
the aristocratic social system of the Rule of Man but
the Old Earth Union and Dingir League, among others,
had more republican and democratic social structures.
Rule by a hereditary nobility and an emperor – even
if planetary freedom was guaranteed – did not sit well
with their populations.

