Intense diplomatic, economic and public relations
pressure were applied to the Rim States but this
effort was interrupted by other difficulties. It was not
until 426 that the Easter Concord accepted Imperial
membership. Terra did not join until 588, via a popular
referendum that dissolved the Old Earth Union and
accepted Imperial rule. Solomani states in Alpha Crucis
and Magyar joined soon afterward following Terra’s
example. Some distant Solomani worlds in regions
beyond Terra continued to remain independent. Terra’s
entry into the Imperium also allowed Imperial scholars
to visit it where they quickly confirmed haut-Devroe’s
Solomani Hypothesis.
In the midst of its diplomatic effort to win over the Rim
States, the Imperium ran into further Solomani-centred
problems. The Scout Service discovered the existence
of the Solomani pocket empires that lay beyond the
spinward borders of the old Ziru Sirka in the Reaver’s
Deep and Dark Nebula. These isolated Solomani
colonies were still embroiled in the on-again, off-again
struggle of the Aslan Border Wars. The beleaguered
colonials of the Reaver’s Deep, under siege by
increasingly powerful Hierate clans, agreed to Imperial
hegemony in exchange for military protection.

Imperium into civil war. He assassinated Empress
Jacqueline and was proclaimed Emperor. Plankwell
was the first of the Emperors of the Flag, a sequence
of Imperial admirals who each attempted to seize the
Iridium Throne. Those who succeeded did not last long
and were quickly replaced by another pretender.
This era of bitter internecine strife threatened to unravel
the social fabric of the Imperium. The chaos and
suffering brought about by the Civil Wars weakened trust
in the legitimacy of the Solomani economic and political
interests that still dominated its court and military.
A resurgent bloc of culturally Vilani megacorporations
argued for an end to rapid military expansion and
a return to the political stability of the corporatedominated era of the Ziru Sirka. This new breed of
Vilani nobles and industrialists began to offer a serious
challenge to the Solomani aristocracy. Other citizens,
especially in Solomani-settled regions where Vilani
ideals had less appeal, began to lose faith in the
concept of an autocratic empire itself.

One-sided encounters with the huge warships and
superior military technology of the Imperium eventually
forced the Aslan clans to negotiate the Peace of
Ftahalr in 380. This treaty ended the Aslan Border
Wars, establishing a 30-parsec buffer zone between
the two powers. The Peace was not welcomed by all
Solomani colonials. Many would have preferred a more
aggressive Imperial policy and were disappointed that
the Imperium did not carry the war into Aslan space
to regain their lost territory. Due to lacklustre Imperial
support, some Solomani worlds within Magyar refused to
join the Imperium.

Rise of the Solomani Movement

In the early 600s there was evidence that the social
structure of the Imperium was in jeopardy. The last five
centuries had been a time of expansion but this also
imposed the familiar limitations on the ability of the
central Imperial government to control its periphery.
The power of Sector Dukes grew as more territory
was added to the Imperium and the Admirals of the
Marches expanded the size of their fleets to deal with
external threats such as the Zhodani Consulate and the
Vargr Extents.
In 606, at the end of the First Frontier War with the
Zhodani, Admiral Olav hault-Plankwell led his fleet
from the Spinward Marches to the Core, plunging the

19

