Solomani populists argued that the Imperial form of
government was flawed; the idea of a star empire ruled
by an emperor was an inherently Vilani concept. The
Solomani had outgrown the era of aristocratic monarchy
during the pre-space flight era. These Constitutionalists
advocated the replacement of the Imperium with
a constitutional monarchy, with the Imperial Moot
transformed into a functional legislative parliament.
The Confederation Movement, often called the
Devolutionists, went further, arguing that the emperor
and the nobility should be replaced by subsector,
sector and Imperium-wide assemblies. This concept
was widely considered to be tantamount to treason. It
was completely unacceptable to Solomani nobility but
gained traction among many ordinary citizens of cultural
Solomani background. Arguments that it was unworkable
were countered by reference to the failure of past
Imperial governments, notably the Rule of Man.
The Solomani Movement initially consisted of such
populists, who drew inspiration from the success of the
old Terran Confederation as well as later successors
like the Terran Mercantile Combine and the Old Earth
Union. The Terran Confederation had lasted for centuries
without civil war, only to collapse when it attempted
to absorb the Vilani Empire and the other minor races.
The Movement argued that failure lay not in the idea of
a confederation itself but in inherent incompatibilities
between Solomani culture on the one hand and those
of the Vilani and other non-Solomani human races
on the other. Stated baldly, Solomani civilisation had
exceptional qualities the others lacked. This concept
sowed the ideological seeds of a more virulent form of
Solomani nationalism.
Many Solomani felt squeezed by the increasing
influence of large Vilani-style megacorporations but
they still dominated Imperial politics and controlled
the upper ranks of the Imperial Navy. The Civil War
era came to a dramatic end when Admiral Arbellatra
Alkhalikoi, a Solomani, achieved victory in the Second
Frontier War over the Outworld Coalition of Zhodani
and Vargr. As had happened before, she led a battlehardened fleet back into the interior. Her forces defeated
Gustav, the most recent emperor to seize the throne.
Unlike her predecessors, Arbellatra did not claim that
throne herself. Instead she appointed herself Regent.
The opportunity may have existed for Arbellatra to
end the Imperium and establish a confederation, as
Solomani populists desired but there is no evidence
that she held such views, which were in any case rare
among Imperial Navy officers. Such a move would have

20

undermined her own legitimacy and weakened the power
of the very coalition of Solomani soldiers and nobles
that supported her. Instead, after several years holding
the regency while establishing a reputation for good
government, Arbellatra allowed the nobility to proclaim
her emperor.
The Vilani noble houses, many of which controlled
megacorporations, did their best to stay out of the
political and military struggles of the Civil War. They
focused instead on promoting economic growth and
stable government in coreward regions of the Imperium.
Following Arbellatra’s victory, these Vilani houses
actively supported her and were first among those
who urged her to take the throne. Arbellatra’s court,
initially pro-Solomani, eventually turned into a political
battleground between Vilani and Solomani power blocs.

Solomani Superiority and the
Solomani Cause

The coronation of Arbellatra saw the Solomani
Movement reach its first peak. The Confederationist
arguments mustered by populist elements of the
Solomani Movement had failed to resonate with the
newly triumphant Solomani aristocracy and military.
Why dissolve the Imperium if a Solomani was empress?
However, newer concepts of inherent Solomani
exceptionalism found fertile ground among aristocrats,
the military and many ordinary citizens of Solomani
descent. These adherents came to believe that pure
original racial humans of Terra, the Solomani, were
superior to other humans and thus better entitled to
rule the Imperium. Solomani were the original, true,
human beings. Complex sociological explanations of the
differences between Vilani and Solomani governmental
traditions were less important to them than the raw
concept of Solomani superiority.
According to this new theory, the Solomani were the first
or true men. All other humans were inferior offshoots,
culturally backward in their ideas. The racial argument
was supported by historical precedent: the ease with
which the Terran Confederation defeated the vastly
larger Vilani Empire; the rapid progress that led to the
development of new technology such as meson weapons
and jump-3 drives; the rebirth and expansion of the
Imperium under Terran stewardship to a size greater
than that of the Ziru Sirka at its height; the triumphs of
Arbellatra over the Zhodani and Vargr coalition.
Radical adherents went further. The Solomani Cause,
as it became to be known, renounced the Rule of Man
as a legitimate source of power, claiming its failure

