was due to its rejection of the pre-eminence of mother
Terra. Hiroshi I and his successors, who had adopted
a Vilani-tainted system of Imperial government, were
traitors to their race who had wrongfully retained
the Vilani bureaucracy and megacorporations. They
had tried to integrate the Terran and Vilani systems
rather than replacing them. The fact that the Terran
Confederation lacked the infrastructure and manpower
to hold the conquered sectors without co-opting existing
Vilani power structure was ignored. Radicals argued
emotionally that the attempt had not been properly
tried; Terra had overcome such long odds before, had
she not?
Criticism of the Rule of Man, or Second Imperium,
could be seen as questioning the very legitimacy of
the Third Imperium as its natural successor state. This
flirted dangerously with anti-Imperial rhetoric. With a
proven empress of Solomani blood on the throne and
their continued influence in the Imperial court, the
mainstream Solomani Movement was not quite prepared
to embrace radical Confederationist philosophies.
This lasted until Arbellatra’s son Zhakirov became
emperor in 666. He chose to take a Vilani woman as his
empress – and all the comforting Solomani Movement
rationales that had supported Imperial power suddenly
came crashing down.

Solomani Alienation

When Emperor Zhakirov succeeded Arbellatra in
666, the Solomani success at court lost some of its
lustre. The economic and political stability that had
come to the Imperium with the end of the Civil Wars
strengthened the megacorporations. Their power
increased relative to both the nobility and to individual
worlds. In 679, Zhakirov recognised this when he
married Antiama Shiishuginsa, whose family controlled
the powerful Vilani megacorporation Zirunkariish.
Previous emperors of the Third Imperium had all been
pure Solomani. Zhakirov’s marriage broke the power of
Solomani aristocracy at court and ensured that future
lines would be of mixed Vilani-Solomani blood. It also
cemented an alliance between the Imperium and the
megacorporations which would endure throughout the
history of the Third Imperium. It may have stabilised the
Imperium by ensuring Vilani support. It certainly added
greatly to both the personal wealth of the emperor and to
the political power of the resurgent Vilani industrialists.
This new alliance alienated believers in the Solomani
Movement. From this point onward, they took an
increasingly anti-Imperial tone, combining the appeal

of Solomani exceptionalism with the Confederationist
desire to create an alternative system of interstellar
government no longer subject to the dictates of a
single emperor.
The power base of the Solomani Movement was in the
rimward sectors of the Imperium, especially in the
Solomani Rim, Alpha Crucis, Magyar and Aldebaran,
which had become a hotbed of Confederationist political
views. Solomani Parties espousing the Movement’s
philosophy began to achieve political power on worlds
in this region. At first local affairs, they developed
interstellar political networks that existed outside of the
normal channels of Imperial power. Solomani corporate
interests in these sectors helped fund them, as they
also favoured an aggressive policy of rimward expansion.
With the emperor’s court and Vilani megacorporations
preferring consolidation and stable borders to frontier
development, such policies received little Imperial
support. Solomani corporations and planetary
governments in the rimward sectors increasingly found
they could no longer rely on the Imperial Navy and
Scout Service’s assistance in opening up new territories
and markets or taking their part over non-human states
such as the Vegans.
Despite Solomani allegations to the contrary, the reigns
of Zhakirov and his successor Margaret I did not openly
favour Zirunkariish or other Vilani megacorporations.
However, they did promote economic, legal and
regulatory policies that strongly supported every
Imperial megacorporation. This policy strengthened the
economy of the Imperium as a whole but there were
losers as well as winners. In the post-Civil War era,
individual worlds and subsector or planetary businesses
increasingly lost both political power and market share
to the ever-expanding tentacles of huge Imperium-wide
conglomerates. Although many of these companies were
of Solomani origin, their interests were increasingly
aligned with the entire Imperium rather than particular
regions or cultures. Senior managers of companies like
Ling Standard Products or SuSAG had neither sympathy
nor interest in the Solomani Movement, which from their
perspective was a reactionary and provincial ideology
that could undermine hard-won stability.
Subsector-wide and planetary business interests held
different attitudes. In the sectors surrounding Terra,
their customers often shared a pro Solomani worldview
and they themselves had increasing difficulties
competing with megacorporations, especially when these
leviathans were closely aligned with both the Imperial
Family and a resurgent Vilani nobility. To balance the
power of the megacorporations, worlds that elected

21

