Solomani Party governments found it in their interests
to court sector-wide and subsector-level Solomaniowned corporations and shut out megacorporations.
Imperial regulations prohibited protectionist practices
in interstellar trade but this was not necessarily the
case at the planetary level. In exchange for favourable
treatment, these regional and planetary companies
began to provide financial support for the nascent
Solomani Movement. One of the leaders of this approach
was Transstar, a subsector-sized transport line that
would use Solomani Movement patronage to significantly
expand its influence.
In 685, delegates representing Solomani Movement
political parties that had achieved power on various
worlds in the Solomani Rim and neighbouring sectors
gathered on Terra in the first great Solomani Party
Congress. They were accompanied by representatives
from many pro-Solomani non-governmental
organisations. These interests included such groups as
the Solomani Students Society, the Rim Coalition for
Social and Racial Justice, the Near Boötes Business
Association, the Church of the First Cross, Alpha Crucis
Committee for a Solomani Society, Citizens for a New
Terran Union, the Confederation Study Group, the Rim
Traders Alliance and the League of Solomani Veterans.
Additional support and funding for the Congress came
from pro-Solomani businesses, chief among them the
rising merchant corporation Transstar, which had offered
discounted travel arrangements for many delegates.
This first Party Congress, which lasted just over a
year, resulted in the formal establishment of a set of
Solomani Party principals and political objectives.
Although the Solomani Party’s official platform itself was
somewhat conservative, racist and militant tendencies
were also on the rise. Over the next few decades, the
organised Solomani Party became increasingly involved
on an interstellar level in planetary conflicts. It used
its resources to support the struggles of pro-Solomani
political groups, either directly by providing militant
volunteers and hiring mercenaries or through its own
allied corporations. Solomani Party money and ideology
increasingly injected itself into conflicts between
rival local regimes and corporations. Mercenaries
funded by Solomani Party-controlled worlds or their
corporate surrogates sometimes came into conflict
with those hired by non-Solomani governments and the
megacorporations that supported them.
Imperial forces were sometimes drawn into these
conflicts, especially when fighting impinged on the
extrality zones of starports within the Solomani Rim. As
the region fractured on racial lines, the extrality zones of
starports often became fortresses or ghettos where non

22

Solomani minorities and megacorporation employees were
increasingly concentrated under the armed protection
of mercenaries or Imperial troops. The Solomani
Party increasingly portrayed starports as bastions of
megacorporate imperialism and noble privilege and
referred to them as ‘zones of Imperial occupation’.
How to handle ‘the Solomani problem’ became a
perennial issue in noble circles, which only served
to feed the growing anti-Imperial sentiment on the
Rim. Corporate military intervention through hired
mercenaries was nothing unusual in the Imperium
but an interstellar political party supporting such
actions across multiple sectors was unprecedented.
It could be seen as violating the spirit if not the letter
of the Imperial Rules of War, which sought to outlaw
warfare between member worlds of the Imperium.
The Imperial court began to take notice of this strain
of Solomani activism and loyalist nobles and antiSolomani megacorporations began throwing money and
mercenaries at the problem.

THE SOLOMANI

AUTONOMOUS REGION

The Solomani Movement was out of favour in court and
its ideas seemed radical to many Imperial citizens. At
the same time, it was also a powerful force that could no
longer be ignored. In 702, Empress Margaret I agreed
to meet with moderate leaders of the Solomani Party
Congress in order to defuse tensions and placate the
more vocal spokesmen for the Solomani Cause. Then
in 704, in what was widely perceived as capitulation to
Solomani demands, the Empress granted an Imperial
charter creating the Solomani Autonomous Region. This
was a sphere of space 100 parsecs in diameter that was
centred on Terra, giving the region its popular name –
the Solomani Sphere.
The creation of the Solomani Sphere was intended as
a sop to the Solomani Movement, whose political and
business leaders became the new rulers of the region.
The Imperium retained theoretical sovereignty but real
power within the region was placed in the hands of the
Solomani Party and its political allies. Hereditary noble
titles were not abolished, nor were fiefs of Solomani
nobles who supported the Movement confiscated.
However, the nobility in the Solomani Autonomous
Region quickly lost their status as representatives of the
interstellar level of government. These positions were
taken over by various committees; initially by regional,
subsector- and sector-level Solomani Party congresses
and later by more formal bodies. However, many
Solomani nobles did use their wealth and influence to

