achieve early positions of leadership within the Party;
others discovered the growing anti-Imperial bias of the
Solomani Movement translated into anti aristocratic
prejudice and chose exile. Those noble houses that
actively resisted the growth of the Movement were often
subject to persecution by Solomani Party militants.
The Imperium ceded its formal jurisdiction over the
region’s starports but Imperial Navy and Scout bases
remained under sovereign control. As a result, the
Autonomous Region was not entirely autonomous, at
least not to begin with. Trade relations and technological
exchanges continued. The Imperium still claimed
formal sovereignty over the space between its stars. It
reserved the right to send Imperial military forces into
the region and manage foreign policy, even in conflicts
between alien client states and its Solomani citizens.
The Imperial Treasury taxed the citizens of the Solomani
Sphere, despite the Imperium having turned its back on
its rimward frontier. Friction was inevitable.
The nativist movement in the Solomani Sphere did not
come into being in isolation. In fact, the period from
800–850 saw the rise of xenophobia throughout the
entire Imperium. In the spinward and coreward regions,
it manifested in the Psionics Suppressions and fear
of Zhodani infiltration. To rimward, in the Solomani
Autonomous District, it took the form of increasing
nationalist and racist sentiment. The Solomani
Autonomous Region, on the whole, did not share the
psi-inspired panic over Zhodani spies. Indeed, Terra’s
psionic institute largely escaped any persecution – but
for various reasons non-humans and non-Solomani
humans were viewed with increasing suspicion.

to operate in the Autonomous Region. The Scout Service’s
operation of the x-boat network was appreciated but its
practice of interdicting new worlds to protect developing
cultures, primitive minor races or fragile ecosystems
was seen as getting in the way of the pro-expansion
ideology of the Solomani Movement. In particular,
Solomani businesses and colonists claimed the Scout
Service bureaucracy’s interdiction process was subject to
manipulation by Imperial megacorporations, who could
get certain worlds exempted from Red Zone status. This
dispute came to a head in the Red Zone Affair.
Left to itself, Solomani political theory had grown more
chauvinistic; in part, this served to justify their colonial
policies on the rimward, spinward and trailing frontiers,
where they were directly competing with the Aslan and
Hive Federation. This was combined with a cavalier
attitude toward the rights of those minor non-human
races that Solomani settlers were encountering on the
rimward frontier. These primitive indigenous races or
‘prindigs’ as Solomani colonial offices classified them,
were species that never been contacted by the Vilani
Empire or the Rule of Man and which existed outside
the bounds of the Imperium. They also tended to occupy
valuable planetary real estate. This led to direct conflict
between polices of the Imperium and the Solomani
Autonomous Region

As Solomani corporations and settlers expanded into
their rimward frontier, they resisted opening these worlds
up to Imperial settlement by non-Solomani humans or
aliens. The inhabitants of Magyar and the Dark Nebula
remembered how the Imperium had refused to press
its advantage to regain the worlds that had fallen to
the Aslan, accepting peace instead. The Solomani were
determined not to allow any frontier worlds in Canopus,
Aldebaran and Neworld to fall into the orbits of either
the Aslan or Hivers or be carved up for the benefit of
Imperial megacorporations or nobles.

The Imperial Scout Service had no formal control
over the territories beyond the Imperial frontier
but nevertheless maintained a presence there. It
recommended that Red Zone interdictions be imposed
on a number of garden worlds in Aldebaran, Canopus,
Neworld and Alpha Crucis, notably the homeworld of
the Kwaz (or ‘Chuckies’), a threatened minor prindig
race. The Solomani Colonial Office ignored these
recommendations and the Kwaz homeworld was fully
opened to Solomani settlement. Next year, in 857,
the Imperial Scout Service’s Communications Office
opposed on budgetary grounds a popular and well-funded
initiative to extend high-speed communications routes
into frontier districts in Aldebaran. Solomani Party
politicians and their media supporters denounced this as
Imperial sabotage of the Sphere’s aspirations, implying
it was retaliation for the Solomani Colonial Office’s
unwillingness to accede to its interdiction polices.

This was symptomatic of the growing disdain that
the Solomani felt toward the Imperium and Imperial
institutions. The Charter of the Solomani Autonomous
Region limited the influence of the Imperial Bureaucracy
and in particular the Imperial Colonial Office. However,
both the Imperial Navy and the Scout Service continued

The Red Zone Affair was just one example of the
many jurisdictional clashes that occurred in the 800s.
Potentially more serious was the situation developing
on the ‘Lion’s Mane’ – the Aslan border region that
abutted on the Solomani Autonomous region’s spinward
frontier. Subsector governments dominated by Solomani

23

