Party regimes began using their new autonomy to forge
alliances with and then absorb independent Solomani
states in the Dark Nebula and Ustral Quadrant. These
newly-strengthened polities began ‘liberating’ worlds
in the Aslan buffer zone in violation of Peace of
Ftahalr and other long-standing agreements. Solomani
Autonomous Region forces fought over three dozen
border skirmishes with Aslan clans between 705 and
870 including the year-long War of Kimson’s Stand
(832) that redrew the borders in the Dark Nebula in
Solomani favour.
The Solomani Autonomous Region’s quasi-independent
status created friction due to differing interpretations
of its duties and privileges. In theory, the Solomani
were not supposed to exercise their own foreign
policy. In practice, the Imperium wanted to keep the
peace on the Aslan border while the Solomani sought
to provide military aid to their brethren outside the
Imperium and in so doing expand the reach of the
Solomani Movement. Imperial Naval forces in the
region found themselves ordered not to intervene as
Solomani colonial navy squadrons struck into Aslan
space, only to be called into action to defend Imperial
worlds against Aslan retaliatory raids. The situation was
becoming untenable. In 835 Empress Paula II ordered
the Imperial Navy to pull back entirely from the Dark
Nebula, Canopus and Ustral, leaving defence there
entirely to Solomani colonial fleets.
Similar conflicts occurred on the domestic front. Most
Solomani worlds had by 850 replaced much of the
Imperial structure of government with their own Party-

24

run institutions yet still paid revenues into the Imperial
treasury. Much of this went to support Imperial services
they no longer trusted. If agencies like the Scout Service
or the Navy did not serve the Solomani Cause, what
good were they?
During the mid-850s, leading intellectuals and
politicians in the Solomani Party argued that their
Autonomous Region was paying Imperial taxes without
receiving useful Imperial services. On the other hand,
the Imperial court was unwilling to extend benefits
to a restive region whose population rejected its
sovereignty and whose philosophy now challenged its
very legitimacy. Radical Solomani leaders and Partydominated media charged that Solomani worlds, once
the bedrock of the Imperium, were being treated as if
they were client states, of no more account than minor
alien races like the Vegans.
In 860 a delegation of moderate Solomani leaders
travelled to the Imperial court, where they failed to
secure further concessions and indeed were refused any
direct meetings with emperor Tomutova II. Negotiations
sputtered on at the sector level for a few more years
but by then popular sentiment in the Solomani Sphere
had turned increasingly anti-Imperial. In 864, the
Solomani Party Congress voted to begin preparations
for possible unilateral secession, including the drafting
of a constitution and the creation of various national
institutions. Many believed this to be a bluff intended
to force an Imperial concessions; however, when these
concessions never materialised, the process had too
much momentum to stop.

