BIRTH OF THE

CONFEDERATION

On 45–871 on Terra, the Solomani Party Congress
of the Solomani Autonomous Region met and
formally announced that its member worlds would be
reorganising into the Solomani Confederation. Its capital
would be Terra. This was effectively a declaration of
independence and was recognised as such throughout
the Solomani Sphere. The Solomani Movement chose
that name in an attempt to strengthen its claims to
the heritage of the old Terran Confederation. They
also adopted many of the old Terran Confederation
and Old Earth Union’s governmental forms. Member
governments sent representatives to a governing council,
the Secretariat, and they elected a Secretary General
and cabinet to hold executive power. The first Secretary
General of the Confederation was the respected political
scientist and Solomani Party activist Noah Kwan,
president of the highly-politicised University of Terra.
The Solomani Confederation was not recognised by the
government of the Imperium but nor did the Imperium
oppose its creation with anything more substantive
than diplomatic protest. The Imperium’s position was
that the government of the Solomani Autonomous
Region was merely engaging in an administration
reorganisation and bureaucratic overreach, which,
for political reasons, the Imperium did not intend to
contest at this time. For their part, Secretary General
Kwan and the other Confederation leaders were at first
unwilling to openly challenge the Imperium and gave
assurances that they still respected Imperial sovereignty
in matters such as mutual defence. Nevertheless, the
creation of the Solomani Confederation resulted in the
formal replacement of all sector and subsector levels
of the Imperial bureaucracy with government ministries
controlled by the Solomani. The transition was relatively
smooth. Often the very same offices continued to
run under Confederation jurisdiction. Solomani Party
loyalists, all of who were of Solomani extraction,
typically replaced senior management.
Yet there were obvious changes. Over time, nonSolomani throughout all levels of the bureaucracy
were removed, mainly through early retirement, normal
attrition or biased hiring practices. In 875, a visitor
could still often find a Bwap or Vilani working as a
record clerk or manager; by 925 the new Confederation
bureaucracy was entirely made up of Solomani humans
– and they were all members of the Solomani Party.
The formal creation of the Solomani Confederation
also stripped the last remaining subsector nobility of
their powers. The Secretariat stated it had assumed the

powers of the vacant high nobility positions and that
this also gave it executive control over Imperial Armed
Forces operating within the Solomani Autonomous
Region. This was disputed by the Imperium, which held
that the Confederation did not legally exist.
The attempted annexation of Imperial assets came
close to starting a war. The Imperium could pretend
the Solomani Confederation had not seceded so long as
certain boundaries were not pushed but attempting to
take control of military forces was unacceptable. In an
effort to defuse the situation without overtly giving in,
the order was given to undertake a ‘major rationalisation
of assets’. Ships and personnel were to be withdrawn
into Imperial space ‘for reassignment’, whilst bases were
to be closed until they were once again needed. There
was hope in Imperial circles that leaving the so-called
Solomani Confederation defenceless and removing its
Scout Service-operated communications apparatus
would demonstrate its unviability.
The exodus of Imperial Navy and Scout Service vessels
from Solomani space was turned into a propaganda
triumph by the Solomani, who portrayed it was ‘kicking
the Imperials out of our systems’. However, it had been
hoped that the Confederation would be able to keep at
least a proportion of the assets deployed in its territory.
In this, the measure failed. A few ships went over to
the Solomani cause, others were seized as they lay in
dockyards and in some cases vessels were interned on
spurious charges. Crews were deported and the vessels
pressed into Solomani service.
In theory, the Confederation was not permitted to use
the Imperial bases. It was inevitable it would, however,
but this was a mixed blessing for both sides. The
Solomani could create triumphant propaganda vids of
its personnel taking control of former Imperial bases
and tearing down their insignia but it now had to find
the personnel to man them and the funds to support
them. The Imperium quietly passed an ordinance
making maintenance of the bases the responsibility
of the Solomani Autonomous Region, in accordance
with its demonstrated wishes. The transfer came with
a responsibility to maintain the bases in a condition
suitable to be used by the Imperial Navy, to permit use
by Imperial forces at any time and to pay a contribution
amounting to rent on the bases. This was ignored by
the Solomani.
Although war had been averted over the issue of
Imperial assets in the Solomani Confederation, the
situation generally favoured the Imperial position.
The Solomani had few ships and many bases,
creating a huge drain on the economy. The interstellar

25

