communications network was all but gone and the
Imperium had gained a new reserve of ships, which
were mostly deployed close to the Solomani border.
The Imperium confidently assumed that the drain on
a disrupted economy would result in a request for the
fleets to come home and the bases to be returned.
In this, the Imperials underestimated the stubbornness
of the Solomani and their willingness to endure difficult
times in the name of their ideals. All available ships
were placed under the command of the Solomani
Confederation Navy, which was tasked with restoring
communications, suppressing lawlessness and disloyalty,
and preparing to repel an Imperial invasion. This was a
mammoth task considering the resources available and
an emergency building programme was implemented
for everything from couriers to capital ships. In the
meantime, the Solomani Confederation struggled
through a difficult period of consolidation.

Internal Conflicts

It did not take long for relations to begin deteriorating
between the dominant racial Solomani majority and
the non Solomani or mixed-race populations within
the Confederation itself. Non-Solomani, while officially
Confederation citizens, were excluded from membership
in the Solomani Party. Disenfranchised and living in
troubled times, these people were naturally nervous
about a future they had no say in. A small proportion
took the difficult decision to journey to Imperial space
and were assisted by the Imperial government. The
Solomani did not oppose these movements, although
there was occasionally friction between Imperial
shipowners and the authorities in the regions they
passed through. Exodus was only an option for the few
who could afford it or those who could join one of the
Imperial Relocation Programmes, however.
There were many worlds within the Solomani Rim,
Diaspora, Old Expanses and Alpha Crucis that possessed
large non-Solomani populations. Their populations
had lobbied against the formation of the Solomani
Autonomous Region; they had actively and sometimes
violently opposed the growth of the Party and the
creation of the Confederation. Now they paid the price
for their opposition. These minorities were increasingly
subject to social prejudice and discriminatory policies.
Active resistance began on many worlds, ranging from
peaceful protests to terrorist attacks and guerrilla
warfare against local Solomani governments and the new
Solomani Confederation authorities.
To deal with this resistance, the Solomani
Confederation created an organisation formally entitled
the Solomani Confederation Security Service. This
was rapidly shortened to Solomani Security, with the

26

organisation being generally referred as SolSec. The
organisation was formally established in 882, although
it had much earlier roots in smaller local or missionspecific agencies. The earliest forerunner of SolSec was
originally a citizen’s watchdog movement established
by populist wings of the Solomani Party to ensure
greater government transparency and prevent Party
corruption. SolSec continued this mission but gained
new powers either through amalgamation of agencies
or as the Solomani Party deemed necessary. SolSec
was increasingly employed to monitor the loyalty of
all citizens, whether or not they were Party members.
It quickly achieved the status of a secret police with
broad powers to arrest or eliminate any threat to the
Solomani Cause.
The problems of worlds with mixed race populations
in the Confederation paled compared to the tensions
created by worlds that possessed majority non-Solomani
human or alien populations. Although officially part of
the Solomani Autonomous District, these worlds did not
recognise the legality of the Solomani Confederation and
insisted they were still part of the Imperium; in effect,
they existed as Imperial client states located inside the
bounds of the Solomani Sphere.
The Confederation’s leaders were unwilling to tolerate
the existence of pro-Imperial enclaves within its own
territory. These worlds came under relentless economic
and political pressure, including trade embargoes and
blockades enforced by the newly organised Solomani
Confederation Navy. In turn, they began to petition the
Imperium for help. This only served to increase mistrust
of ‘disloyal aliens’ and resulted in several incidents that
would eventually lead to war.
The oppressive policies of the Solomani Confederation
caused a growing resistance from non-Solomani,
particularly from the Vegans of the Vegan District in the
Solomani Rim and by Vilani and mixed-race pro-Imperial
inhabitants of the Old Expanses. Where minorities
were less organised or the Party was too entrenched,
resistance was lower key, typically taking the form of
non-violent protest and disruption. Where large mixed or
non-Solomani populations existed, relations between the
Solomani Party-run governments and these minorities
often deteriorated to the point of open conflict and
planetary war.
Conflict between the resistance movements and the
Solomani government forces are considered by some
historians to be the actual beginnings of the Solomani
Rim War. Vilani organisations in the Old Expanses
began to dispatch aid to their cousins in the Solomanicontrolled areas. Protests and appeals to government
were still more common than riots and guerrilla warfare

