but the level of violence gradually escalated. Since
incidents almost always happened in areas populated
by non-Solomani, it was these populations that
suffered when violence broke out. This led to a cycle of
increasing violence and hatred, made worse by those
who resorted to terrorism.
Both sides used terror as a weapon. Disaffected nonSolomani would strike back any way they could and
some believed they were justified in crossing the line
into terrorism. Unofficial pro-Solomani groups hit back,
motivated by hate, and were often ignored or even
protected by the authorities. The Solomani authorities
at times used terror to cow a rebellious population –
terrorism was not merely the province of the wild-eyed
fanatic; it could be and was coldly planned in a centre
of government.
The plight of non-Solomani began to garner attention
in the Imperium. Subsector and sector level media and
sentient being’s rights groups had warned of growing
racism in the Solomani Confederation for decades but
their voices had been ignored. This soon changed. In
899, the Old Expanses and Diaspora offices of the
Makhidkarun megacorporation mounted a gigantic
media campaign aimed at exposing the excesses of
the Solomani Movement. Their coverage was carefully
slanted to emphasise the loyalty of Solomani within the
Imperium while casting those in the Solomani Sphere
as different, reactionary and racist. Nonetheless, the
Solomani Movement charged that Imperial media
focused on the police actions, not on the disorder and
terrorism that triggered them.

taken pride in their pure Solomani blood, celebrated
Terran heritage or expressed any sympathy toward the
Movement’s aspirations. In sectors distant from the
Solomani Sphere, such as the Spinward Marches or
Antares, this friction was muted, rarely leading to more
than a schoolyard taunts or argument between friends.
For ethnic Solomani living in Imperial territory adjacent
to the Solomani Sphere, such as the Old Expanses,
it was stronger. Their loyalty to the Imperium was
questioned, Solomani cultural events were cancelled or
lost funding and their careers or livelihoods suffered.
Most Solomani in these circumstances stoically
maintained their loyalty to the Imperium, especially
those with traditions of service in institutions like the
Imperial Navy. Others, however, decided they were no
longer welcome. As tensions grew, millions of Solomani
living just outside the Sphere began to emigrate into it.
The Solomani Movement actively encouraged this. In
905 an advertising campaign by the Rim Foundation, a
charity formed by the Solomani Party and the corporation
Transstar, trumpeted the virtues of a life within the
Confederation where proud Solomani heritage could
be celebrated amongst one’s racial peers. The Rim
Foundation raised billions of Credits to provide low
passage and financial aid for ethnic Solomani who wished
to emigrate to worlds in the Solomani Confederation.
These immigrants were encouraged to colonise frontier
worlds in Aldebaran and the rimward regions of Alpha
Crucis, to ensure these regions had an all-Solomani
population. A side effect of this campaign was the
formal codification in planetary law of racially-exclusive
immigration policies on many Confederation worlds.

Vilani and Vegan supporters and Imperial sophonts’
rights activists argued these problems had not occurred
under non-partisan Imperial rule. They claimed
Solomani control of the Sphere was itself illegitimate;
the more extreme among them suggested the only
worlds Solomani had any special claim to were those
of Terra and its original colonies. Well-meaning people
sent money to anti-Solomani organisations or even
went to join them. Whilst some of these were legitimate
advocacy and sophonts-rights groups, others were
outright terrorist organisations. Discovery of this small
but steady flow of aid to their opponents created yet
more resentment among the Solomani.

THE SOLOMANI

A Solomani Exodus

The Imperium initially relied on a mix of diplomacy
and threat of force. When a Vilani world deposed
its Solomani government either through political
process or revolution, it would petition to be placed
under direct Imperial government. These transitions
of power were fully legal under the Charter of the
Solomani Autonomous Region, which the Imperium still
considered to be in force. In such cases, the Imperial

The perceived arrogance of the Solomani fed a
reciprocal increase in anti-Solomani feeling through
other parts of the Imperium. Although this was directed
primarily at the more racist elements of the Solomani
Movement and Party, it still made life uncomfortable
for ordinary Imperial citizens who had previously

RIM WAR

With the ascent of Margaret II to the Imperial throne in
908, the non-Solomani inhabitants of the Confederation
believed they had finally found their champion. In the
mid-900s she turned attention to the Confederation
in response to increasingly urgent appeals from the
Imperial client states within the sphere. These had
begun to petition the Empress directly, asking to be
governed directly by the Imperium. Empress Margaret
and her advisors decided to grant their request in order
to bring this upstart Confederation to heel.

27

