28

Navy deployed forces into the Solomani Sphere to face
down any Solomani Confederation attempt to restore
their authority. The Confederation initially backed down
but minor skirmishes occurred in the Old Expanses and
the Rim as Imperial Navy vessels escorted merchants to
break Solomani Navy blockades or moved to reinforce
the defences of those states whose governments had
petitioned for Imperial protection.

Navy forces from the Solomani Sphere. Empress
Margaret responded by revoking the charter and ordering
the dissolution of the Solomani Autonomous Region,
along with the reintegration of Terra into the Imperium.
She selected the Terran date of 13 March, 5471 (292–
950 Imperial) for this decree. The choice of date was
symbolic, reflecting the incorporation of Terra into the
Imperium and the marriage of Zhakirov and Antiama.

The Solomani Confederation largely confined itself to
diplomatic protests and counter-revolutionary activity
on worlds that were wavering between Solomani and
non-Solomani factions. It was galling to have to permit
Imperial Naval forces to deploy in pockets throughout
the Confederation but the Solomani were outmatched
and unprepared for war. Acquiescence bought time,
during which the Confederation marshalled its forces
and began to move military strength to its coreward
border worlds.

Imperial forces began massing at naval bases in the Old
Expanses and Diaspora, threatening a full-scale invasion
if the Solomani continued to resist. The Confederation
wavered in its resolve, with the Secretariat and high
council divided between those who advocated fierce
resistance and pragmatists who knew they were not
ready for war. It is probable that war would have
followed and the Solomani would almost certainly be
crushed. However, Empress Margaret II died suddenly of
natural causes, leaving the Imperial plans in disarray.

In 944, the Confederation’s Secretariat led by Secretary
General Mohammed Weinberg formally protested
Imperial meddling in what they called its sovereign
affairs. They claimed the Imperium had violated the
charter and demanded the withdrawal of all Imperial

In 945 the Imperial throne passed to Margaret’s youthful
grandson, Styryx. The new emperor lacked the passion
and organisational abilities of his grandmother and
was more interested in enjoying his new position than
potentially plunging the Imperium into a massive war

