on the Rim. Rather than continue Margaret’s military
build-up and the threat of military pressure, he instead
emphasised continued diplomatic efforts. This staved off
war but it also gave the Confederation additional time to
build up its own military forces.
Despite earnest and determined diplomacy the number
and intensity of border incidents and skirmishes
increased, as the Confederation began to aggressively
push back against Imperial intervention. By 970,
Styryx’ advisors persuaded him that his policy was not
working and the Imperial Navy renewed preparations for
a major confrontation. Once again, they hoped that the
Solomani Confederation could be intimidated by show of
force. The Imperial strategy relied on the Vegan worlds
which, unlike the Vilani worlds of the Old Expanses, lay
deep within the Solomani Rim. Their plan was to grant
the Vegans their own Autonomous District within the
Solomani Sphere, reinforce their existing garrison and
use this as a base for a strong Imperial presence in the
heart of the Solomani territory.
The plan seemed workable but its advocates
underestimated the Solomani reaction. The
Confederation could not tolerate a threat to their
existence and began full-scale war production. In
984 the strongly anti-Imperial Solomani Party high
council leader Sergio Bordoni was elected Secretary
General. He was supported by two other hawks: Grand
Admiral Shuki La Pierre and SolSec coordinator Rachel
Zhang. Meanwhile, Imperial attention was distracted
by the outbreak of the Third Frontier War (979–986),
which had diverted military resources to the Spinward
Marches. Faced with multiple crises beyond his ability
to handle, Emperor Styryx abdicated in 989.
Taking advantage of what they hoped would be a period
of confusion, in 990 the Bordoni-led triumvirate cajoled
the Solomani Party congress and then the Secretariat
of the Solomani Confederation into issuing a resolution
that re-asserted their claim to the entire Solomani
Sphere, including those systems that had re-joined the
Imperium. The newly-crowned Emperor Gavin took this
as a statement of hostilities. Not wanting to appear
weak or indecisive, he formally declared war against the
Solomani Confederation.

Total War

The outbreak of war was anything but unexpected. The
Solomani Confederation was aware that the Imperium
could bring an overwhelming level of force to bear but
that it would take time to do so. They therefore had two
prospects for victory. The first was to perform a feat of
arms sufficient to force the Imperials to the negotiating
table before their distant reserve fleets could arrive. If

that failed, the only chance was to inflict such terrible
casualties that the Imperials preferred negotiation to
total victory. Thus the fleets were in position and had
their provisional orders long before war was declared.
As soon as the announcement was made, the plan was
put into action: a bold advance into Imperial territory.
The Confederation hoped to shock the Imperials with
heavy defeats and threaten the destruction of key assets
or the loss of prestigious worlds. Former Solomani
systems were to be retaken if possible, along with
Imperial systems of great strategic value. The campaign
was launched with the certainty that complete military
victory was impossible and that the best hope was to
follow the old military adage: Grab what you can and sue
for peace.
The first phase of the Confederation offensive achieved
swift success in Diaspora and Daibei, regaining some
frontier worlds they had lost over the last 50 years and
capturing some new territory inside the Imperium.
The Solomani had been blooded in the prior decades
of skirmishing and had a solid operational plan,
experienced crews and high morale. The heavy Solomani
units, although using slightly inferior technology, were
of more recent construction than the Imperial Navy
ships deployed against them and incorporated the latest
military doctrine into their designs.
Despite the disparity between the Confederation
and the Imperium, the initial advantage lay heavily
with the Solomani. The Imperial border fleets were
numerically weaker than the massed naval forces of
the Solomani Confederation and commanders suffered
from the same complacency that had hampered the
Navy during the Third Frontier War. This was especially
true among reserve forces brought as reinforcements.
In this environment the key advantage held by the
Confederation was strategic initiative. Many units of the
Imperial Navy were caught in ‘political deployments’
rather than as a concentrated battle force. These were
destroyed or forced to surrender for minimal casualties.
A Confederation capital ship might be outgunned
by its Imperial equivalent, and the Imperium might
have far more of them, but at the ‘point of decision’
the Solomani Confederation Navy could put far more
firepower into an engagement than its enemies.
Despite these advantages the Solomani Confederation
did not have it all their own way. Imperial Navy units
put up a stubborn resistance or died hard where they
were unable to retreat. Some of the most desperate early
fighting occurred deep within the Solomani Sphere, in
Alpha Crucis and the Solomani Rim sectors. Margaret II
had committed the Imperium to protect several nonSolomani worlds located far from the border and their

29

