garrisons had neither been adequately reinforced nor
withdrawn under her timorous successor. Numerically
inferior Imperial Navy forces trapped behind enemy
lines were defeated, pursued and destroyed. Where key
Imperial-held worlds were no more than a parsec from
major Confederation planets, the Solomani strategy
made innovative use of system defence boats. With
careful advance planning, hundreds of planetary navy
SDBs risked harrowing multi-year sublight journeys,
their crews frozen in low berths. This freed up significant
Confederation Navy starships for the heavy fighting on
the Imperial border.
Despite early Confederation Navy victories, stiff
resistance continued on the planetary surfaces of major
worlds, where local non-Solomani forces were stiffened
by strong Imperial Army garrisons. The Solomani
Confederation Army, with limited experience in full-scale
planetary assault, took heavier than expected losses.
Solomani generals increasingly came to rely on siege
warfare and massive artillery bombardments, showing
little concern for high civilian casualties in regions with
largely non-Solomani populations.
Solomani forces began to encounter further difficulty
in 993 when fleet advances into the Old Expanses were
met with unexpectedly fierce resistance from planetary
navies and subsector fleets. These bought the Imperial
Navy time to regroup and counter-attack in strength,
using forces brought up from depots in neighbouring
sectors. The Confederation Navy suffered major fleet
losses, especially among capital ships. Solomani ground
forces were left trapped on worlds that still held out.
Once the Imperial Navy had regained space superiority
throughout most of the Old Expanses, Imperial Marines
landed to reinforce those Imperial Army units that still
held out, trapping several divisions of Solomani troops.
Others were evacuated as the Solomani Confederation
Navy pulled back. Imperial cruiser squadrons broke
through into Alpha Crucis, launching hit-and-run raids
on commercial highports. Lightly protected colony
worlds behind Solomani lines were hit. Nuclear strikes
were used against starports, in retaliation for prior
Solomani actions.
The Solomani admiralty pressed for a withdrawal from
the Old Expanses, concentrating on a strategy that
would exploit successes in Daibei and Diaspora. Instead,
panicked demands from the Secretariat representatives
of the Old Expanses and Alpha Crucis insisted that every
world there to be defended at all costs. The secretarygeneral acquiesced, a decision considered by many to
have lost the war for the Confederation. The Solomani
Navy halted plans to continue its advances into Imperial

30

territory and moved to a defensive posture. Strike
cruisers and escorts that had been tied up in siege
operations in the interior were moved to reinforce the
main fleet and additional Army units were called up. The
Imperium reinforced Diaspora and Solomani momentum
was lost.

The Long War

The period 993 to 998 was one of stalemate giving way
to steadily increasing Imperial pressure. The grinding
battles in the Old Expanses and the Solomani Party’s
stubborn refusal to abandon territory there had depleted
the Confederation forces. The Spinward Marches now
appeared to be peaceful and the Imperium was free
to devote its full attention to the Solomani Rim War,
as this conflict was now called. The resources of the
Confederation, although significant, could not match
that of the entire Imperium in a lengthy war of attrition.
With the conflict going badly, the Bordoni regime lost
influence, although Zhang remained in power at SolSec
and her protégé Lily Magruder, Minster of Foreign
Affairs, became Secretary General.
On the home front, Solomani worlds began to suffer
scarcities in some goods as trade was interrupted and
merchant shipping was diverted to essential military
production. Conscription was employed to fill up
military strength but there were few protests against
the draft or the war itself. Those that did occur never
became widespread due to SolSec’s tight control of
information. In the sparsely populated rimward regions
of Aldebaran, Canopus and Alpha Crucis the levels
of Solomani voluntary military enlistment and service
in the interstellar merchant marine were so high that
they threatened to cause a labour shortage. This
was mitigated through the controversial expedient of
transitioning large numbers of primitive indigenous
aliens – the ‘prindigs’ – off their reservations and into
productive agricultural and factory work.
Although the war effort was broadly popular, as it
dragged on SolSec was often called into action to
deal with sporadic risings by non Solomani minorities
who felt deliverance was at hand. To free up troops
on the home front, SolSec assumed broader military
powers, developing what amounted to its own private
armies. SolSec paramilitary forces even fought against
Solomani governments, engaging in little-publicised
combat operations to eliminate the leadership of certain
planetary Solomani Parties who were wavering in support
of the Cause and planning to switch sides. However, the
majority of Solomani citizens remained patriotic in what
they now recognised, even through the fog of official
censorship, was a war of national survival.

