Endgame

The year 998 saw the Imperial Navy achieve strategic
dominance. The greater population and industrial
base of the Imperium was making its power felt and
Solomani forces were now outnumbered on all fronts.
Constant advances by Imperial forces into the heart of
the Solomani Sphere marked the final phase of the war,
from 998 to 1002.
The new strategist of the Imperial high command, Grand
Admiral Arielle Adair, had studied Terran history and
did not wish to repeat the same mistakes that the Vilani
Empire had. This was to be no mere punitive expedition
that simply regained a few border worlds. The Solomani
were to be crushed with the Imperial flag planted on Terra.
The Imperial fleets had two main objectives: liberation
of the Vegans and the capture or destruction of key
Confederation assets – Navy bases and industrial worlds
that were vital to military production. They chose not
to divert their main strength to relieve Imperial worlds
still resisting Confederation sieges or by taking minor
subsector capitals. That was left to second-line forces,
which were ordered to initiate a series of light probing
attacks across the entire frontier in order to distract
attention from the central thrusts. The Imperial Navy
also made skilful use of cruiser squadrons to raid deep
into Confederation space, hitting lightly defended
planets and keeping the Solomani off balance. Forced
onto the defensive at objectives of the Imperium’s
choosing, the Confederation fleets began to be defeated
in detail just as they had done to the Imperials at the
beginning of the war.
With many task forces tied down reinforcing inadequate
planetary defences, the Solomani Confederation Navy
was slow to concentrate its forces against the Imperial
advance. The Imperial strategy was to attack in force
along two parallel axes of advance that converged on
the Solomani capital of Terra, with smaller task forces
fanning out to cut a huge pocket of Solomani territory
off from the rest of Confederation. The Imperial High
Command theorised that the Solomani would have no
choice but to mass large forces to protect Terra. This
would open the way for the defeat of the unsupported
forces caught within the pocket.
In 1001 the Imperial advance finally reached and
liberated the Vegan District. This gave the Imperium
the advanced base they required to bring the war to
an end. Even this late in the war, Solomani forces
still could win tactical successes but were unable to
halt the main advance. The loss of the Vegan District
pushed the Solomani high command into a desperate
gamble. They consolidated their remaining naval
forces into a single Grand Fleet under their ablest fleet
commander, Ivan Wolfe.

Grand Admiral Wolfe recognised the danger posed by
the two-pronged Imperial advance. The Imperial Navy’s
17th fleet was leapfrogging along the Lagash-NuskuAggida line, driving toward Terra itself. Their 1st Fleet
was advancing out from the Vegan worlds toward the
Solomani industrial centre of Dingir. Wolfe noticed the
latter advance was more tentative, due to the caution of
its commander. Before the two fleets could unite, Wolfe
struck at the 17th fleet, smashing its advance guard as
it entered Aggida and scattering the surviving vessels.
Wolfe then quickly shifted his forces to Dingir, hoping
to also defeat the 1st Fleet. This gamble was necessary
and justified but Wolfe underestimated the ability of the
17th fleet to reorganise. It rallied in a matter of weeks
and jumped in pursuit, arriving during the decisive
Battle of Dingir.
The Solomani Grand Fleet met the Imperial 1st Fleet
at Dingir, bringing about what was one of the largest
and lengthiest fleet engagements since the Civil War.
The 1st Fleet and Grand Fleet battered one another
for more than a week before the unexpected arrival
of reinforcements from 17th Fleet turned the tide.
Caught between them, the already weakened Solomani
Grand Fleet was roughly handled but not annihilated.
Their remnants, which included Wolfe’s own flagship,
several capital ships and fleet carriers plus a significant
force of cruisers and escorts, fell back deeper into the
Solomani Sphere.
The Imperial forces advanced into the Sol subsector.
No major Solomani Confederation Navy forces were left
to defend the Solomani capital of Terra. Instead, Wolfe
had chosen to save the Confederation fleet as a force
in being. This unpalatable decision brought about the
survival of the Confederation but there are many who
still denounce the Betrayal of Terra.

Invasion Earth

The way to Terra lay open, offering a chance to end
the war. Imperial Grand Admiral Adair judged that the
capture of Terra would break the will of the Solomani
or at least force them to the negotiating table. A peace
with the greatly diminished Solomani Confederation
was desirable at that point and there was reason to
hope that the loss of their homeworld would demoralise
the Solomani, triggering a widespread collapse of the
rest of the Confederation’s strength. In addition to
Wolfe’s defeated fleet, the Solomani still had significant
second-line fleet elements they had held back in the
Dark Nebula and Magyar to secure the Confederation’s
spinward border against opportunistic Aslan incursions.
New naval construction was also being readied in the
Boötes cluster and in Alpha Crucis and Aldebaran. A
swift blow might end the war before these could enter
the fray.

31

