The invasion of Terra, launched in the second half of
1002, was the largest combined naval and ground
operation in Imperial history. To capture the Sol system
the Imperial High Command assembled much of its
available military strength into a single assault force,
suspending operations elsewhere. The build-up for the
assault was lengthy and in the meantime battleship
and cruiser squadrons wore down the immense system
defences. In addition to large, heavily armoured
monitors and countless system defence boats the
Solomani had repurposed warships too damaged to
return to front-line operations. A few Confederation Navy
ships also defied orders and remained to take part in the
final defence.
Only when the way was clear could the ground
assault take place. This, too, was a huge undertaking
spearheaded by the best Army and Marine units
available. Military bases elsewhere in the solar system
were also targeted but Terra and Luna were the
main objectives. These were defended not only by
Confederation Army formations but also highly-motivated
paramilitary groups that had been lavishly supplied with
weaponry by the Confederation authorities.
The numerically-superior Imperial Navy forces
destroyed the major Confederation units in the initial
phase of the invasion but surviving system defence
boats waged an annoying hit-and-run campaign,
attempting to deny the Navy secure control of Terra’s
orbital space. Despite the best efforts of these craft,
the Navy achieved local space superiority for long
enough to drop Imperial Marines in regimental strength
in attempt to capture Terra’s three starports.
Imperial forces then broke out of the North American
southwest, crossed the central plains and began fighting
their way into the heavily industrialised Caribbean
islands and the industrial centres of Central and South
America. Further landings in Australia and North Africa
secured additional lodgements. Once the Imperial Navy
mopped up what was left of Terra’s SDB wings, it was
able to provide heavy orbital fire support. As increasingly
desperate fighting erupted across the planet, tens of
thousands of ordinary Terran citizens also took up arms,
harassing Imperial supply lines and striking at lightly
defended rear areas. Elite Confederation commando
teams left behind enemy lines supported and organised
the guerrilla operations.
The Imperial invasion nearly met disaster in its fifth
week, when elements of the newly landed 299th
Imperial Field Army were caught between advancing
African and European mechanised armies. The Imperial
713th Lift Infantry Corps were destroyed covering

32

their retreat out of Spain as they fell back on AECO
starport in Africa. A counteroffensive across the Atlantic
supported by massive orbital bombardment turned
the tide. Resistance ended in Europe when the entire
Confederation 124th Lift Infantry Corps were trapped
and destroyed in the Battle of the Spanish Pocket. This
brought to an end organised resistance in Europe and
Africa, although guerrilla attacks continued.
Fast-moving grav tank battles that swirled around the
Pacific Rim arcologies saw the final destruction of the
massed Terran armies. The last two months of the war
were a grim mopping up operation, as surviving pockets
of Solomani regulars died to keep the Imperials pinned
down on Terra and guerrillas hid caches of weapons to
fight another day. The last organised Confederation Army
unit, a reinforced planetary defence garrison dug in
under Mount Farallon, surrendered on 313–1002. Terra
had fallen to the Imperium.

Armistice

Imperial strategists believed the fall of Terra would end
forever the idea of Solomani superiority. They failed
to consider that the Solomani were not the centrally
Party-run dictatorship their propaganda painted it as.
Much of the Confederation saw itself as a coalition of
independent worlds bound by common ties of blood. The
Solomani Cause was not something that was imposed
from above but a way of life for a large proportion of the
population. The Solomani were a fiercely independent
people who no longer thought of themselves as
Imperials. The fall of Terra was a heavy blow to them
but with much of Wolfe’s fleet still intact, they could
continue to fight. More importantly, they were willing to.
The Imperial government was deeply concerned with
the strain that 12 years of total war had imposed on
their economy. Moderates on both sides had already
entered into informal peace negotiations, although
these had been badly disrupted by the assault on Terra.
Once it became clear that the surrender of Terra was
not going to trigger an immediate Solomani collapse
and with the remains of Ivan Wolfe’s Grand Fleet still
constituting a major strategic threat, the Imperial High
Command accepted Solomani diplomatic overtures
and negotiated an armistice. For their part, Wolfe and
other Solomani supreme commanders were glad to
gain a respite to regroup their remaining forces. Their
own civilian government was still reeling from the loss
of Terra, with conflicting factions turning against one
another. A significant minority of Solomani Party fanatics
demanded an immediate counter-attack to regain Terra
at any cost. Admiral Wolfe, backed by realist elements
in the government, refused to squander lives or risk his
fleet. Despite calls for his immediate replacement, his

