arguments gained the backing of SolSec which silenced
most of his critics. The end of 1002 saw a cessation of
organised hostilities throughout the Solomani Sphere.

POST-WAR

RECONSTRUCTION

The Confederation and Imperium informally agreed to
extend the armistice indefinitely but no peace treaty
was ever signed. Officially, the Imperium still does not
recognise the existence of the Solomani Confederation.
Reciprocally, the Confederation does not recognise the
Vegan Autonomous Region or the validity of Imperial
claims to the worlds that were lost during the conflict
they refer to as ‘War of Solomani Liberty’.
Military historians still debate the decision to invade Terra.
In retrospect it may have been a blunder, a Pyrrhic victory
for the Imperium that allowed the Solomani Confederation
to survive as a nation. Nevertheless, the war was a clear
defeat for the Solomani. The Imperium ended the war in
control of roughly 25% of the former Solomani Sphere.
The occupied systems were reintegrated back into the
Imperium, with the exception of those worlds transferred
to the newly formed Vegan Autonomous District. Worlds
with pro-Imperial populations were restored to civilian
control as soon as functioning civil government could be
restored. Worlds with pro-Solomani populations, such
as Terra, came under military occupation. Organised
resistance ceased after the armistice but intermittent
guerrilla activity still flares up on many occupied worlds,
despite heavy reprisals.
Although it had not collapsed, the Solomani
Confederation had suffered a terrific shock. The economy
was a shambles and despite the best efforts of SolSec
and the state-run media, popular belief in the Solomani
Party and the Cause was badly shaken. The invasion of
Terra had been a heroic last stand but it also had resulted
in enormous death and destruction, most of it Solomani.
Other worlds also suffered badly. Even on planets never
touched by the fighting, most citizens had lost friends or
family that were killed, maimed or captured while serving
in the Armed Forces or aboard merchant starships.
Grand Admiral Ivan Wolfe, despite defeat at Dingir and
the controversial decision not to stand and fight at Terra,
emerged from the war with an untarnished reputation.
His cogent strategic arguments in favour of the armistice
had demolished the case of the fanatics and won him
support among pragmatists in the Solomani Party. With
the war over, he was encouraged by leading Solomani
Party factions to seek high political office. New elections
were held in the Secretariat in 1003, which meant in

improvised chambers aboard the battleship Morrigan.
Despite opposition from delegates who blamed him not
fighting to the bitter end, Wolfe was easily elected as
the new Secretary General of the Confederation. In an
interesting parallel, his Imperial counterpart, Admiral
Adair, would later be invested as Archduchess of the
Domain of Sol and thus chief Imperial viceroy for the
Solomani Rim and adjacent sectors. The respect the two
old adversaries felt for one another went a long way to
ensuring that the terms of the armistice were upheld in
the post-war decade.
Wolfe’s first major act was to establish a new capital
for the Solomani Confederation. He chose Home in the
Aldebaran sector, largely for its location and similar
conditions to Terra. The name ‘Home’ was a contrivance
based on what the existing population called their world.
These people were Sanctaterrists; members of an antitechnologist movement. Whilst the newly established
administration was generally respectful of the peaceful
Sanctaterrists, ‘our home’ became ‘the home of the
Solomani People’ and quickly just ‘Home’.
In the eight years Wolfe served as Secretary General,
he maintained a firm stance against any effort to renew
hostilities and negotiated an agreement that arranged
for the exchange of millions of prisoners of war and
displaced persons. His administration was able to
skilfully balance the interests of the Solomani Party,
the military and SolSec with that of the population as
a whole. Wolfe succeeded in pushing through a series
of military and governmental reforms that helped
rebuild and strengthen the Confederation and repair the
shattered Solomani economy.
The new administration created industrial centres
deep within Confederation territory to replace those
that had been lost to the Imperium and signed a new
trade agreement with the Hive Federation. Relations
with the Aslan Hierate did not improve, however. The
Confederation Navy responded forcefully when Aslan
clans probed for weakness on the spinward border. This
peaked in 1007, when a large Confederation task force
fought an inconclusive battle with Aslan warships in
the Ustral Quadrant.
Wolfe also pushed through a reorganisation of the
planetary army and navy forces, placing them within a
centralised Home Forces system to serve as a source
of replacements and reserves for the armed forces.
He did not want the Confederation Navy to ever again
be forced to disperse its forces to protect individual
worlds that neglected their own defences. Under his
prodding, the Secretariat agreed that individual worlds

33

