The Phoenix Project

In 1040, Imperial occupation forces on Terra uncovered evidence of a coordinated guerrilla conspiracy
codenamed the Phoenix Project. This was a programme apparently set up by Solomani leaders on Terra
who had rightly predicted it would fall to the Imperium. They pre-positioned caches of military supplies
and established the groundwork for a multigenerational programme to train anti-Imperial guerrillas.
Caches were hidden in many different places on Terra, each holding large quantities of weapons,
vehicles, medical equipment and munitions. These were supposedly of varying technological levels so
as to be useful even if recovered in the distant future, regardless of the knowledge of the users. Each
cache was carefully concealed with its location entrusted to a single local family. These families were to
form the cadre of a guerrilla force when the rising was to take place. There were unconfirmed rumours
of two further stages: a code-name ‘Lambda’ that would signal a mass rising and a secret ‘Omega’ stage
that would involve intervention by Solomani military forces.
The Imperial military authorities initiated a major counter-insurgency operation to seek out the caches
and kill or arrest the families involved. Simultaneous raids took place around the globe, often led
the Imperial Marines. These were followed by additional strikes based on information and prisoner
interrogations. Hundreds of guerrillas were killed or captured and over 7,000 sympathisers were
detained for suspected ties to Phoenix Project cells. Several hidden caches were discovered yielding
600 tons of military supplies ranging from advanced combat rifles to a stockpile of nuclear demolition
charges. Children that were receiving guerrilla indoctrination were also taken into custody. Much of the
contraband was Terran army weapons that had gone missing after their forces surrendered.
The arrested guerrillas received military trials, most of them in secret. Over 2,000 suspects were
convicted for numerous violations of Imperial martial law including weapons possessions and
membership of banned organisations. Hundreds of leaders were executed or received life sentences at
Imperial prison planets for committing imperial high crimes including conspiracy to commit treason
and possession of nuclear weapons. The indoctrinated children were sent to reform institutions on
non-Solomani worlds.
Public statements by Terran Imperial military government claim the Phoenix Project was successfully
aborted. A few guerrillas did escape the net but most were arrested or eliminated over the next few
decades and the rest rendered ineffectual through disruption of their networks. Resistance activity
continued but mainly in the form of occasional riots or sporadic terrorist incidents.
Imperial historians have since cast doubt on whether the Phoenix Project had ever been a coordinated
program. Although the guerrilla groups and weapons caches were real, many now consider the
Lambda and Omega stages to have been mere propaganda, used by guerrilla leaders to energise and
recruit followers. Conspiracy theories and rumours to the contrary still persist, alleging that guerrilla
families or caches eluded the net.
A few small supply caches or wartime-era weapons drops have turned up in the 65 years since the
crackdown, mostly by accident. The last reported find was in Lake Hauroko in New Zealand in 1102.
Divers searching for a pair of missing tourists found a shipping container packed with Rim War-era
military combat drugs and medical supplies.

34

