or districts would be permitted to reserve more of their
tax revenues for Home Forces provided these met a
suitable standard of capability.

Solomani Confederation and also quietly cleaned house
by de-politicising many moribund scientific institutes on
major worlds.

Wolfe’s legacy as a capable statesman and skilled
commander is unquestioned but some of his policies
had unanticipated results. Many of the political and
economic reforms promoted local industrial and political
power but this came at the expense of centralised
Confederation control. Stronger Home Forces also
encouraged factionalism, increasing the military power
available to world governments and the local Solomani
parties that ran them. Wolfe’s industrial development
policies established new centres further from the
threatened Imperial border. Over time, this also moved
the centre of gravity of Solomani society to rimward and
trailing, creating political-economic rivalries between old
Solomani worlds in the rump of the Rim and Magyar and
the emerging economic powers in sectors like Aldebaran
and Alpha Crucis.

The 1080s and 1090s witnessed the rise of some
more radical factions in the Solomani Party notably the
Goodallites and the Dolphin Embracers who advocated
increased rights for uplifted animals. Both managed to
send significant delegations of supportive humans and
associate-member non-humans to the General Party
Congress for the first time. Even so, neither were able
to challenge the dominance of purist factions. Support
for granting full Party membership to uplifted animals
or to non-Solomani humans remains a minority view.
The same period also saw the start of a disturbing
increase in terrorist attacks and political assassinations
within the Confederation, mainly from partisans of the
increasingly fragmented but still militant factions of the
Solomani Party.

The defeat of the Confederation weakened the Solomani
Party as belief in the Solomani Cause was challenged.
In the wake of the Solomani Rim War the institutions
of the Confederation were overstretched. SolSec
struggled to cope with the twin problems of organising
guerrilla operations in occupied systems and dealing
with dissatisfied populations on those worlds that were
questioning the very basis of Party rule. Although the
Solomani Confederation was able to weather these
storms they still paid a price. After 1002 the Party lost
its grip over dozens of worlds. Some used the military’s
post-war weakness as an opportunity to secede from
the Confederation and others governments became
dangerously unstable and independent in their policies.
Confederation policy in the post-Wolfe years has been
fairly conservative with member states allowed wide
latitude in their internal affairs. Major accomplishments
included the gradual thawing of relations with the
Imperium, particularly in the Solomani Rim. This led
to improvement of trade and strengthening of the
economy, which in turn permitted rejuvenation of the
merchant fleet. Another major accomplishment was the
declaration of the Solomani Science Initiative in 1041
championed by Minister of Science and Technology
Yuki Jung who later become Secretary General. The SSI
was partly a propaganda stunt; it included a ‘decade
of scientific achievement’ in which one mega project
was announced in each sector every year including
an interstellar expedition that launched a squadron of
ships on a voyage to the next galactic arm. However
it also provided Secretariat funding for new hightech educational and research centres throughout the

The Confederation has generally avoided large-scale
foreign military adventurism and taken a defensive
policy with regard to its major rivals; the Imperium
and the Aslan Hierate. It maintained strong reserve
fleet assets on the Aslan border throughout most of
the Solomani Rim War, which prevented any major
crises developing. However various minor internal
military and political problems kept the Confederation
military busy between 1050 and 1105. The rebuilding
of the Confederation military forces has also allowed
them to flex their muscles again. Typical of these
events were the Duni War (1086) in Alpha Crucis, in
which a Confederation Navy fleet defeated the upstart
Commonwealth of Gadjick and the Boötes Trade War of
1098–1102.
The newest Confederation government is led by
Secretary General Salazar, a former Minister of
Justice and ex-mayor of Home’s capital district. His
administration has emphasised internal stability and
continued funding of rimward expansion in sectors
like Aldebaran, Canopus and Neworld. Under Salazar
the Secretariat and High Council have focused on
internal problems within the Confederation including
nation-building on poor worlds in the Dark Nebula
and peacekeeping oppositions on ‘troublesome’
Confederation worlds. Currently the Confederation is
involved in two large-scale police and humanitarian
relief actions against ‘rogue’ Solomani states at Willeson
in Aldebaran and Brookwall in Alpha Crucis. If these
drag on or other major crises develop, Salazar’s tenure
may be in trouble.

35

