C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

H

R

E

E

THE SOLOMANI

CONFEDERATION
The Solomani Confederation, founded in 871, is the
third largest human interstellar state – exceeded only
by the Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate. The
original boundaries of the Confederation were the
Solomani Sphere, a 50-parsec radius zone centred on
Terra in the Solomani Rim. During the Solomani Rim
War a quarter of its territory was lost to the Imperium,
leaving a large bite missing from its central coreward
region down to Terra.
The present Confederation includes portions of 13
sectors: most of Aldebaran, Alpha Crucis, Canopus,
Magyar and Neworld and smaller slices of the Dark
Nebula, Daibei, Solomani Rim, Spica and Ustral
Quadrant. It also includes slivers of the Reaver’s Deep
and Old Expanses.
Aldebaran, Canopus and Neworld are collectively known
as the Confederation’s rimward frontier. Except for the
Home subsector, this is a less-populous region ripe for
future Solomani expansion. Their rimward subsectors are
sparsely populated with many young colonies and border
a region of space not yet claimed by any other major
powers. The population is 90% pure Solomani; the rest
are mainly primitive indigenous races and genetic uplifts
such as Dolphins.
The Dark Nebula and Ustral Quadrant are informally
dubbed the Lion’s Mane. A combination of lucrative
trade and sporadic conflict with the Aslan Hierate
clans dominates politics and business. The population
is similar to the rimward frontier, with a tiny Aslan
minority. Some of the Solomani worlds were settled by
desperate refugees from the old Terran colonies deeper
in the Hierate that eventually fell during the Aslan
Border Wars. Driven out of more hospitable homes, the
worlds they retreated to in the Dark Nebula and Ustral
Quadrant were often grim and unforgiving; so are many
of their inhabitants.

36

Magyar, the Solomani Rim and Alpha Crucis are
sometimes called the Core Confederation, although this
is often extended to the Home subsector of Aldebaran
as well. These sectors are home to the earliest Terran
settlements, the minority of Old Solomani worlds
that have been settled for as long as 3,500 years.
There are also younger colonies in the more rimward
regions, such as Alpha Crucis’ trailing subsectors. The
Core Confederation worlds also border the Imperium
and include some worlds that have culturally diverse
populations, with a mix of Solomani majorities and
non-Solomani minorities. Border disputes, Solomani
Movement politics and trade with the Imperium are
major issues.
Spica and Langere are the Trailing Frontier sectors.
They are both closely involved in trade with the Hive
Federation and with independent worlds and pocket
empires on the Confederation’s trailing border. Langere
is sometimes considered part of the rimward frontier,
including several new colony worlds.
The Occupied Systems: Those worlds that once belonged
to the Confederation but are now held by the Imperium
are generally referred to as the Occupied Systems. In
practice, the term is mainly used in reference to worlds
with majority Solomani populations that might want to
return to Confederation rule, such as Terra, especially
where pro-Solomani political action or guerrilla activity
is taking place.

SECTORS

The Solomani Confederation retains the Imperial
mapping conventions of sectors and subsectors. It
does not use them as units of interstellar government,
although the bureaucracy and military are often
organised on a sector basis.
Certain broad generalities apply the sectors within the
Solomani Confederation.

