The Solomani Rim

This sector is a highly-civilised and long-settled region
on the rimward frontier of the Imperium. It includes
the original Solomani homeworld Terra and its earliest
colonies, as well as many old Vilani worlds and the
homeworld of the alien Vegans. A century ago the sector
was the central battlefield of the Solomani Rim War.
Most of the sector, including Terra, was captured and
occupied by the Imperium.
Only a rimward strip of subsectors remain in Solomani
hands. These include some of the oldest and wealthiest
Solomani worlds. The last century since the war has
seen a gradual improvement in relations with the
Imperium, mainly due to the desires of the worlds on
either side of the border to resume lucrative trade. Even
diminished, the Solomani subsectors of the Rim are
one of the most important regions of the Confederation,
partly due to its control of these trade routes. Notable
among the mercantile powers on the Solomani side of
the border are the powerful Near Boötes Cluster and the
world of Kukulcan.
There remains considerable popular support for
Solomani resistance movements in the occupied
systems. However, the Solomani governments in power
have profited from trade with the Imperium; they are
dominated by pro-business factions who oppose hawkish
policies and support better relations with the Imperium;
their rivalries are with each other. The Confederation
Navy, Imperial Navy and the Vegans maintain large
military forces in the sector but for the past several
years the border has been relatively quiet. This may be
because the risk of incidents triggering an all-out war is
deemed too great.

Aldebaran

Aldebaran is located just rimward of the Solomani Rim.
Its human citizens are almost entirely pure Solomani,
although there is a significant population of primitive
indigenous aliens. Not all of these have successfully
assimilated into Confederation society.
Aldebaran sector is not adjacent to any hostile powers so
the region has been free of the border conflicts that have
troubled other regions. A few worlds have been settled for
thousands of years but only the coreward subsectors of
Aldebaran were heavily populated prior to the Solomani
Rim War. This changed once Home was selected as the
new capital of the Confederation. Development of the
sector has become a powerful engine for new economic
growth. The worlds around Home are benefiting from their
proximity to the Confederation’s new centre of gravity
while settlement of the undeveloped rimward subsectors
has been accelerated.

38

Confederation policies designed to encourage rimward
settlement through liberal grants of territory on
unsettled worlds have created a wide-open colonial
frontier. Rival Party factions, corporations and planetary
coalitions are competing in a ‘land rush’ to claim,
colonise and tame new worlds. In some subsectors
the pace of development has outpaced the rule of
law. With the leadership of the Confederation Navy
reluctant to commit main fleet assets to a region that
is not threatened by external enemies the rimward area
remains something of a ‘wild frontier’.

Alpha Crucis

Alpha Crucis is a diverse region immediately to trailing
of the Solomani Rim. Once located on the very fringes of
the old Vilani Empire it was largely colonised by Terrans
during the Interstellar Wars and the Rule of Man before
being cut off in the Long Night. Never fully culturally
integrated into the Third Imperium, the sector was an
early hotbed of Solomani unrest whose coreward regions
exploded into violence during the Solomani Rim War.
Today, Alpha Crucis contains a mix of old Vilani and
Terran worlds, former pocket empires not fully integrated
into Solomani society and undeveloped or non-aligned
worlds that still possess a frontier character. Most of the
sector is held by the Solomani Confederation but two of
its subsectors were conquered by the Imperium. These
remain under occupation. With most of the Imperial
trade flowing through the Solomani Rim, the Alpha
Crucis region has been less willing to embrace détente.

Magyar

This sector was colonised by Terra during the Interstellar
Wars and Rule of Man. Its population is almost entirely
Solomani. Two of its subsectors are occupied by the
Imperium. During the Interstellar Wars period, the
coreward subsectors of Magyar were the target of
multiple colonisation ventures by several Terran ethnic
groups and social movements. Some of these sought
to create their own private utopias beyond the Terran
Confederation. Isolated during the Long Night, these
worlds retain very distinct cultures that still have echoes
of old Earth. Due to its proximity to the Hierate, foreign
relations with the Aslan are just as important as those
with the Imperium. Magyar has a long history – dating
back to the Aslan Border Wars – of being a staging area
for Solomani-Aslan conflict.

The Dark Nebula and Ustral Quadrant

The Solomani Confederation controls a narrow strip of
subsectors in these sectors, which border on the Aslan
Hierate and non-aligned worlds. In the Dark Nebula,
the frontier actually runs to within only a few parsecs
of Kusyu, the Aslan homeworld. Aslan commerce is
vital for the Solomani worlds in this region but raids

