and skirmishes with Hierate clans are also frequent.
These sectors are heavily patrolled by the Confederation
Navy and have strong Home Forces garrisons. Many of
the Solomani people of the region are descended from
refugees who fled older Terran colonies inside the Hierate
during the Aslan Border Wars. Some worlds claimed
by the Solomani Confederation are actually disputed
territory, part of the buffer zone that was established by
the Imperium as part of early peace treaties with the
Aslan. The validity of these treaties are questioned by the
Solomani Confederation. Many of the buffer zone worlds,
particularly those in the Dark Nebula, have collapsed
into barbarism, with human or mixed human-Aslan
populations living in primitive conditions.
Since achieving independence from the Imperium
the Solomani of Magyar and the border sectors have
gradually moved to reclaim the border worlds in hopes
of reintegrating them into Confederation society. This
has led to periodic clashes between Solomani and Aslan
military forces. Escalation into a full-scale conflict has
been prevented by the unwillingness of the Solomani
Confederation Navy and High Council to divert fleets
from the Imperial border.

Daibei, the Reavers Deep and
Old Expanses

These are the three sectors coreward of the Dark Nebula,
Magyar and Alpha Crucis respectively. The Confederation
only includes a few worlds in these sectors. Large
sections of Daibei and the Old Expanses, along with all of
Diaspora, were lost to the Imperium during the Solomani
Rim War. These worlds in these sectors usually had

majority non-Solomani populations so there is a general
if largely unvoiced sentiment in the Confederation that
they are better off without them. A few Solomani fanatics
in the Party still hope to regain these territories but this
is generally seen as an impossible dream, at least as long
as the Imperium itself remains unified. Those worlds in
border areas that remain under Solomani control have a
tendency to be authoritarian police states or under direct
military rule, the better to retain control of their large
non-Solomani populations.

Spica

Spica lies directly to trailing of Alpha Crucis. The
Solomani Confederation controls about one-quarter of
Spica, a complex frontier region that is also divided
between non-aligned worlds and the Hive Federation.
Commerce with the Hivers is a major part of the local
Solomani economy. About half this trade takes place
in the trans-border region and most of the rest at major
ports and commercial hubs within a dozen parsecs of it,
although ships from both powers sometimes make long
voyages through the territory of the other.

Canopus

A lightly-settled frontier region to rimward of Magyar,
parts of Canopus were unexplored until the last century
and some worlds are still largely terra incognita.
Commercial interest in Magyar and Aldebaran was
renewed in the last half-century. Land-hungry Aslan clans
from Ustral Quadrant have also attempted to colonise
worlds in what is ostensibly Confederation territory.
This has resulted in sporadic border conflicts between
Confederation and Hierate vessels.

39

