Neworld and Langere

These two sectors are located to trailing of
Aldebaran, directly rimward of Alpha Crucis and
Spica respectively. The Confederation claims most of
Neworld and a few subsectors in Langere. Neworld
consists of sparsely settled frontier mixed with a
few very old Terran settlements and lost colonies.
These have created their own pocket states and are
only partly integrated into Solomani Confederation.
Langere is even more of a frontier and includes
Solomani client states that border on the Hive
Federation. Although there are some disputes
between Solomani and Hiver proxy states and a
recent rise of piracy, there is no military conflict.
The Solomani-Hiver contest in the sector has instead
taken the form of diplomatic and economic rivalry to
gain the affections of non-aligned worlds.

WORLDS AND MEMBER

GOVERNMENTS

Solomani Confederation worlds are much like other
Human worlds. The physical details and process for
creating worlds is the same as detailed in the Traveller
Core Rulebook. However, there are some differences
in the meaning of certain terms – the Solomani idea
of a democracy might be a little different to that used
in the Imperium. This is because whilst Solomani
Confederation worlds include all the usual government
profiles, the Confederation’s charter restricts
government to the Solomani Party. This seeming
contradiction is explained through the flexibility of
the Party in adapting itself to different societies and
social hierarchies.
The key difference between the Imperium and the
Confederation is the concept of member governments
rather than ‘worlds’. A member government has
jurisdiction over all of its territory, which usually
means its homeworld and the rest of the star system.
A member government can sometimes control only a
portion of a planet or may have territory in other star
systems. Whilst the Confederation services have the
right to operate anywhere within the Confederation
– which by definition means within the territory
of member governments, sovereign possession is
respected. Star systems that do not fall within the
territory of a member government or where the local
government is incapable of projecting power to control
the star system, are protectorates of the Confederation
as a whole. If the local member government develops
the capability to control its own star system,
protectorate status is lifted and the system becomes
sovereign territory of the government.

40

Government Types

All Confederation worlds are governed by the Solomani
Party but local Parties can vary considerably and may
govern in widely differing ways. In most cases Party
membership is wholehearted and the world can be
considered to be governed by the Party. However,
sometimes a world government pays only lip service to
the Cause. These are governments first and local Parties
second. So long as the rules are followed and the end
result is beneficial to the Confederation as a whole, a
lack of enthusiasm for the Cause is tolerated. However,
governments that have joined the Party are far more
likely to be suspected of disloyalty than those where the
Party has formed a government.
The following are examples of how the Party structure
can be adapted to different situations. Other
configurations are possible, some of them quite bizarre.
None (0): The Solomani Party is not a significant
presence on this world and the world does not send
representatives to the Secretariat. Government code
0 often represents government by a single family or
extended family. Usually the world is a protectorate of
the Confederation.
Company/Corporation (1): Many large corporations in
the Confederation are owned directly by the Solomani
Party. Some of these are powerful enough to control
entire worlds. A Solomani corporate state could also be
a world-corporation, in which the entire governmental
apparatus is handled by a corporate body.
Participating Democracy (2): On most Solomani worlds
only a minority participate in the Party but this is not
always the case. It is possible for almost every adult
citizen may be an active Solomani Party member, with
the Party making its decisions through open votes,
referendum or consensus. The Party runs everything but
everyone runs the Party.
Self-Perpetuating Oligarchy (3): Leadership of the
Solomani Party is limited to an elite that selects its
own members by techniques such as heredity, property
or monetary qualification, or through rigged elections.
The oligarchy stays in power by distributing favours to
the masses or by oppression. In many cases an existing
oligarchy has joined the Party in order to remain in
charge and may not be all that fervent in its belief in
the Solomani Cause. This classification can also include
worlds where a very small minority of pure Solomani
dominate a large majority of uplifted animals or mixedrace humans or non-Solomani.

