Representative Democracy (4): It is quite possible to have
a representative democracy even in a one-Party state.
Any Solomani citizen can register as a Party member.
As long as the basic concepts of the Solomani Cause
remain sacrosanct, anyone can join the Party and
through it run for an elected office. A world government
can have multiple political parties so long as all of them
are members of the Party. Thus the world is governed
by the Party but the population get to decide what
aspects are emphasised and what policies are followed
– or at least how they are followed. Even if there is only
one Party, multiple candidates can stand informally to
represent the interests of particular factions, interest or
regions. In worlds with this sort of government there are
few barriers to entry into politics aside from money.
Feudal Technocracy (5): Solomani Party positions are
integrated into a hereditary technocratic leadership.
A technocratic position will be associated with a
parallel Party position – for example the hereditary
post of Power Engineer for a given city may come with
chairmanship of that city’s Party supervisory committee
for electrical utilities
Captive Government (6): This may indicate the world is
a possession of a multi-world member government or
that it is a protectorate directly administered by the
Solomani Confederation’s military or bureaucracy.
Civil Service Bureaucracy (8): This follows the mode
of many old Terran one-party bureaucratic states.
There may be a façade of democratic elections but
the bureaucracy or public service unions are really in
charge and are synonymous with the Solomani Party.
Obtaining government positions and promotions may
require attending the proper schools and passing
state-run exams. Political reliability, seniority and
social connections are important but competence and
expertise are also rewarded; it remains possible to
advance through merit alone.
A variant of this is the self-perpetuating bureaucracy
where the Solomani Party-run government exists only
to increase its own reach and power. Government
positions and promotions are mainly allocated through
a politicised system based on Party lists maintained by
senior ministers. Administrative ranks in the Solomani
Party have direct parallels in government positions. For
example, the chairperson of the Solomani Party for a
given city is likely to also be that city’s mayor or city
manager. A rubber-stamp representative democracy may
still exist with either the Party choosing who is on the
list of candidates or the elected offices being nothing
but puppets for a permanent Party bureaucracy. The
government does not exist to serve the people, although
it may provide them with a very agreeable lifestyle.

Charismatic Dictator (10): The local Solomani Party’s
leader enjoys overwhelming popular support from the
masses, giving him dictatorial powers. The dictator
often combines a Party position and a government title.
For example, world president for life or a hereditary
queen will also come with the position of leader
of the planetary Solomani Party. In the Solomani
Confederation a charismatic dictatorship often retains
popularity through ensuring direct control of patronage
appointments, establishment of a cult of personality and
skilful media manipulation.
Non-charismatic Leader (11): As above but the leader
or their successor has lost popular support despite
retaining a grip on the Party and the world. This can also
indicate a system where senior position in the Party (and
thus senior government posts) are hereditary or subject
to a caste system. Non-charismatic leaders rely heavily
on direct control of the military and security forces, and/
or media. Their subordinates remain loyal for fear that
they will lose their own power, privileges and possibly
their lives if the dictatorship falls. Dictators will often
attempt to blame problems or unrest on external or
internal ‘enemies of the Solomani Cause’.
Charismatic or Non-Charismatic Oligarchy (12): A
small group of senior Solomani Party officials form
a political bureau that assigns all government
appointments. These officials hold supreme executive
power for life and can dominate the party and
government by doling out appointments to favoured
clients in the military and civilian sphere. As with
dictatorships these regimes are often the loudest
public supporters of the Solomani Cause. A powerful
enemy such as the Imperium, Aslan or Hivers –
whichever is closest or seems most threatening –
provides scapegoats for any domestic problems and a
way to demonise opponents of the regime.
Religious Dictatorship (13): This usually indicates
that a religion that exercises theocratic control has
accepted the Solomani Cause as divinely inspired – for
example, through a belief that the Solomani are God’s
chosen people. Thus, members of theocracy will also
be Party members and Party members must be part of
the ruling religious hierarchy. It is also possible that
there is no religion as such and instead a particular
faction of the Solomani Movement itself has mutated
into an authoritarian ‘secular religion’. On such a world
the Party may intrude into all aspects of life, other
religions may be banned, the study of political dogma
– often the writings of a particular Solomani Party
philosopher – may take the place of political discourse,
literature and spirituality.

41

