Law Level

Travel Codes

As a general rule the Law Level of a Confederation world
is treated as one level lower than its actual value when
applied to a Party member in good standing. This may
be blatant, with signs in shop windows saying certain
goods can only be sold to Party members or it may be an
unwritten custom. In such a case a Party member might
still be stopped by police when doing something illegal
but upon producing Party identification the Traveller
finds the police lose interest in the situation and go
looking for some ‘real’ crimes to deal with.

Red Zone worlds are interdicted by the High Council or
sometimes the Confederation Navy. The former is usually
as a matter of state security; the latter is likely to be
temporary in order to contain a dispute or long-term to
protect a sensitive installation. Red Zones are normally
enforced by the Navy but may also have a SolSec
presence. Some interdictions are monitored solely by
SolSec. The Solomani Confederation has no equivalent
of Imperial Scout Service interdiction to safeguard
developing cultures.

Tech Level

The most common reason for interdiction is to
quarantine a spreading plague or to blockade a
rebellious planet that has overthrown its own Solomani
Party. Confederation Navy warships will generally warn
off all vessels approaching within 100 diameters of the
interdicted world and fire on any ship getting closer than
10 diameters. Ships are usually still allowed to jump
into the system or refuel at gas giants. In rare instances
interdiction may be established to protect something
of strategic importance such as an Ancients site or
strategic research station or to keep secret an event
whose revelation would cause damage to the Solomani
Cause. Reasons for Red Zoning are rarely made public.

On Solomani Confederation planets local laws often
give preferential treatment to Solomani Party members.
Members are likely to be able to skirt certain laws and
government or business regulations and be treated more
respectfully by police.

The Solomani Confederation lags somewhat behind the
Imperium in technological development. Confederation
worlds range up to TL14. Any TL result greater than
TL14 should be reduced to TL14. This does not apply
to Solomani-populated worlds within the Imperium
itself. The Confederation has been pouring resources
into improving its technological infrastructure and the
educational quality of major centres. It is predicted
that several major worlds such as Home will have
achieved TL15 within a decade.

Military Bases and Express Boat System

Solomani Confederation military bases exist on
important or strategic worlds throughout the Solomani
Confederation. There are no scout bases although some
naval bases may be oriented toward exploration, survey
or x-boat system operation.
The Confederation does not have an x-boat system. It
inherited one when its worlds seceded but over time
it has moved to a system of couriers and contracted
mail ships. The primary routes are marked on the
map the same way as x-boat lines but the chances of
encountering actual x-boats in service are slim. A few
are still retained, serving links between specific worlds
but as they wear out these boats are being cannibalised
to keep the others running. Eventually, the express boat
will become extinct in the Confederation.
The bases of Home Forces are not shown on the
subsector maps, since almost all worlds have them in
one form or another. Any Solomani Confederation world
with a Class A, B, C or D starport can be expected
to have Home Forces bases commensurate with its
population and TL.

42

The Solomani Confederation retained the Amber and
Red Zone code system when they broke away from the
Imperium. Publication of Amber and Red Zone codes
are controlled by the Solomani Ministry of Information
with input from other Confederation bodies.

Amber Zone worlds are simple travel advisories
indicating hazards. Due to the politicised character
of media in Confederation space the designation of
an Amber Zone is quite untrustworthy. It can indicate
there are hazards or that the world is being punished
for deviancy from the Solomani Party orthodoxy. On the
other hand, it is not unusual for worlds that really should
be classed as Amber Zones to instead muster political
pressure through allies in the Secretariat to escape this
stigma. Many worlds that are suffering from violent
political upheaval, disasters, ongoing insurgencies or
even civil war can go unmarked. The Imperium cautions
Travellers visiting Solomani space to instead rely on
commercial intelligence agencies, independent media or
reports from recent visitors. Many Solomani travellers do
the same.

Starports

Starports in the Confederation are similar to those in
the Imperium but with a few key differences. Like the
Imperium there is usually a main port accompanied
by a startown, often the planetary capital, which is a

