cosmopolitan city or town near the port. Ports have
the familiar division into groundside downport and
sometimes an orbital highport.
The most important distinction is that the Solomani
Confederation itself does not claim territorial
control over the world’s starport. There is no distinct
extraterritoriality or ‘extrality’ line around the port; it
is the sovereign territory of the member government.
Starships themselves enjoy a degree of extrality but once
outside the vessel a visitor is subject to the laws of the
world they are on.
There are a few localised exceptions to this; all Solomani
Confederation military bases, SolSec office buildings
and certain Solomani Confederation government
installations such as the capital region on Home are all
legally considered Confederation territory.
A Solomani Confederation starship is registered at
a particular world within the Confederation. This
governs the laws that apply aboard it, in addition to
Confederation law. The vessel’s homeworld also has
the obligation to regulate and ensure its safe and
lawful operation; for example, its homeworld’s labour
regulations would apply.
Any starship or spacecraft in the territory of a member
government is subject to its jurisdiction and any ship
in Confederation space is subject to its laws. Vessels
are generally permitted to carry locally prohibited
items within the jurisdiction of a member government
providing they do not attempt to offload them. A few
governments enforce zero-tolerance policies but for
the most part starships are considered the territory of
their owners and subject to the laws of their world of
registry. This applies even when the vessel is standing
on the landing pad at a starport – what is in its hold
only becomes the business of local law enforcement
agencies if it is offloaded. Indeed, many ports allow
mildly illegal goods to be transferred to other vessels
providing the correct procedures are followed. However,
if the goods can be proven to be destined for the
member government’s territory penalties will apply and
some governments require a very low standard of proof
in such matters.
For example, a starship may be carrying goods such as
alcohol or weapons that are legal on its homeworld but
not on the world whose port it is visiting. The very nature
of the passengers or crew themselves might also violate
other laws. For example, the world that is being visited
may require all adult males shave their heads and

wear black robes, or ban non-Solomani from marrying
Solomani or owning personal weapons. A starship or its
occupants might find itself in violation of any number of
strange local laws when it lands.
Since this causes problems for interstellar trade the
Charter of the Solomani Confederation avoids states
that a member government has only ‘limited and
conditional jurisdiction’ aboard a visiting starship.
Translated from a mountain of legal precedent this
means the vessel is considered a mobile piece of its
registered homeworld’s territory and thus subject to
its homeworld’s laws rather than local law. However,
there is a limit to this sovereignty. If the local world’s
authorities – usually its starport police or Home Forces
– have evidence the ship’s occupants are engaged in
activities that would violate local laws in the world
beyond outside the ship, they can impose their legal
jurisdiction over it. This means that the world’s police
or military can exert their legal powers to stop, board,
storm or search the vessel, arrest crew or passengers
and confiscate cargo. However, if they do so without
proper cause, they can be sued under Solomani
Confederation law and that suit would likely be backed
by the government of the starship’s homeport.
This also means that if a fugitive from local law such as
a political dissident boards a ship, the police or military
are legally able to pursue them if they are willing to risk
a possible dispute with another Confederation world.
Again, this is in stark contrast to the Imperial practice,
where any jurisdiction would stop at the starport unless
the fugitive was also in violation of Imperial law. The
protection a starship receives from local authorities
depends in part on where it is registered. A starship
registered to a high-population, high-TL world like
Cthonia, Turin or Home commands more respect than
one registered to a low-population backwater planet
so insignificant it cannot send its own delegate to the
Secretariat. Rivalries can also affect this, sometimes
resulting in harassment or seizure of cargo on extremely
flimsy pretexts. Free traders usually prefer to register
their ships out of home ports on main worlds with few
enemies, good starports and moderate Law Levels.

FOREIGN POLICY

The Solomani Confederation is bounded on three sides
by great interstellar powers. The Aslan Hierate is on its
spinward frontier, the Imperium is located to coreward
and the Hive Federation lies on its trailing border.

43

