Directly to rimward of the Solomani Confederation is a
large open frontier area that contains a mix of unexplored
or lightly settled systems and scattered pocket empires.
This region – the rimward frontier – is ripe for future
Solomani expansion. The rimward frontier is considered to
be vulnerable to Aslan and Hiver influence but to hold the
manifest destiny of the Solomani people. Some Solomani
thinkers maintain that the root cause of Solomani-Imperial
conflict was the Imperium’s reluctance support aggressive
rimward expansion. In any event the Solomani Confederation
Navy, various Solomani Party organisations, merchant
consortiums and private corporations are actively engaged in
exploration, scientific research, trade and diplomacy in the
region. Solomani like to believe their eagerness to open up
a new frontier region is what differentiates them from the
timorous, inward-looking Imperium.

The Hive Federation

Relations between the Solomani Confederation and
the Hive Federation are cool but cordial, with formal
diplomatic envoys, trade missions and private commerce
going back and forth on a constant basis. The Hivers
are considered a strategic competitor but not at present
an enemy. There have been military conflicts between
Solomani and Hiver client states on the rimward
frontier and in Spica. So far there have been no direct
engagements between Solomani Confederation and Hive
Federation armed forces save for a few instances involving
military advisors serving in client state forces. The Hivers
appear to value the Solomani as a counterbalance to the
Imperium. On balance the Solomani would rather the
Hivers were not there but have learned to live with them.
They provide a useful trading partner and a source of
TL15 imports outside Imperial control.

44

The Hive Federation is made up of many different races,
led by the Hivers themselves. Hivers are proud of their
ability to manipulate others and are without doubt
convinced they have every right to place themselves
above the other races of their Federation. In that,
alien as they are, the Hivers are surprisingly similar
to Solomani humans. Hivers and their subordinate
races from the Hive Federation tend to attract a lot
of attention when they venture beyond the usual
turnaround points but little of it is hostile. It is more
that aliens are uncommon in the Confederation so
seeing a group of them – often from a variety of
species – is a novelty. Solomani who travel in the Hive
Federation are often bewildered at first but soon come to
understand the grand order of things. To many, the Hive
Federation is what the Solomani Confederation might
have been if more of the prindigs had been at a useful
Tech Level.

The Aslan Hierate

The treaty that ended the Aslan Border Wars – the Peace
of Ftahalr – was signed between the four large Aslan
clans and the Imperium. This established a buffer zone
but the Solomani Confederation does not consider itself
bound by the treaty and neither do a number of minor
Aslan clans. Many Solomani worlds in the spinward
sectors of the Confederation have been feuding with the
Aslan for over a 1,000 years. The border worlds have a
rich and bloody history of victories, defeats, atrocities
and betrayals and they remember them all. Some are
descended from Terran colonials forced from their
worlds into exile by Aslan advances. Yet they have also
had to live with the Aslan as neighbours for just as long,
trading and even allying with them against both other

