Aslan and even rival Humans. This complicated history
is far older than the Solomani Confederation and often
trumps considerations of Solomani Party ideology.
The Aslan Hierate and the Solomani Confederation
are natural rivals. Both great powers are expansionist,
relatively youthful in interstellar terms and have a
strong sense of their own innate racial superiority and
warrior prowess. The Aslan Hierate is significantly larger
than the Solomani Confederation but somewhat less
technologically advanced and possesses a less unified
Navy. Both have other rivals on their borders that
prevent them deploying their full strength against each
other. At the same time neither considers the other to
be an existential threat. The disputes between them
are significant at the sector level but do not reach the
same ideological intensity as the conflict between the
Solomani Confederation and Imperium. Instead they are
simple concerns over territory, honour and the control of
trade routes.
This creates a paradoxical situation where minor
Solomani-Aslan conflicts are much more frequent
than those with the Imperium just because there is
less risk of massive escalation. The majority of the
Solomani Confederation’s Secretariat have no interest
in an all-out Aslan war; likewise the majority of Hierate
clans do not want war with the Confederation. Every
few years there is a small but bloody border flare-up
involving subsector-level military forces, planetary
troops and mercenaries. A minor world or two changes
sides. This is punctuated by temporary ceasefires,
trade agreements and skirmishes involving ‘pirates’ and
‘raiders’ and then it all heats up again in a few years’
time. Although fighting can be intense for the worlds
that are involved, both interstellar governments can
afford to accept temporary loses and try again when the
time is right rather than fight to the death.

The Third Imperium

The Solomani Confederation came close to fighting
to the death with the Imperium. It may have learned
its lesson but its people do not consider true peace
with the Imperium to be possible as long as the
Imperium holds Terra. Official relations between
the Solomani Confederation and the Imperium are
chilly. The Imperium does not officially recognise the
legitimacy of the Solomani Confederation. The Solomani
Confederation considers the Imperium to be occupying
much of its territory against the wishes of its citizenry
and has vowed to never accept the loss of its old capital
and homeworld. No formal peace treaty exists on a state
to state level.

The Confederation openly states that it has the right
to provide support for Solomani resistance movements
within the Imperium, although in practice the
Confederation as a whole does not do so. Instead, the
Confederation mildly condemns those of its member
governments who do provide assistance whenever the
Imperium protests but at the same time asserts their
right to continue. So long as the situation remains lowkey the Imperium accepts this as a safety valve that
may prevent tensions escalating… and supports antiConfederation dissidents in much the same way.
The Confederation attempts to maintain military
forces strong enough to deter Imperial aggression and
capable enough to assume the offensive if the right
opportunity arises. The Secretariat is under no illusions
that the Imperium would not annex and ‘pacify’ the
Confederation – or at least parts of it – if it were able to
do so cheaply enough.
This state of cold war complicates official diplomatic
relations. What replaces them are a series of agreements
and working relationships based on the armistice that
ended the Solomani Rim War. These relationships
primarily exist between high levels of the Solomani
Confederation Navy and the Imperial Navy and between
the governments of border worlds. They function in
part because the Solomani and Imperial Navies have
significant professional respect for one another despite
the fortunes of politics and war.
Unofficial relations with the Imperium blow hot and
cold. The Solomani Rim War returned a large part of
the Solomani Sphere to Imperial control. Despite the
fact that the Imperium does not formally recognise the
Solomani Confederation and the fact that the Solomani
Confederation does not formally recognise Imperial
sovereignty over any portion of the Solomani Sphere, an
informal detente has been in effect since the armistice
of 1002. This detente has not yet reached the point of
formal diplomatic relations but merchants from both
states routinely cross the border.
In particular the commercial interests of the Solomani
Rim have significantly improved day-to-day relations.
The Imperium is now once more the Solomani
Confederation’s largest trading partner. Tens of
millions of Solomani tourists and business travellers
visit the Imperium every year. The delegates of those
rich Solomani Confederation border worlds that are
growing fat on foreign trade form a powerful moderate
bloc within the Secretariat. Their power increases
because the Confederation charter awards votes based
on economic contributions and as trade increases the
moderate bloc’s power also improves.

45

