Despite this thaw in relations the Imperium is still
considered a rival or enemy by the majority of the
Solomani Confederation’s people. Every pure Solomani
child grows up learning the Imperium is a threat.
Exiles and refugees from worlds on the Imperial
side of the border have significant political power on
many Solomani frontier worlds. They have popular
organisations that support anti-Imperial guerrilla and
terrorist groups operating on Imperial-occupied worlds.
When Imperium’s authorities manage to trace support
for terrorist or guerrilla attacks back to Solomani
Confederation worlds they will retaliate in various ways.
The most common punitive measures take the form of
temporary trade sanctions that close border systems or
starports to Solomani visitors or ships or which embargo
export of TL15 goods to the Solomani Confederation.
The Imperium also counters with active measures such
as covert military or intelligence operations against
Solomani targets. The Confederation retaliates with
similar tactics of its own.

Non-Aligned Worlds

The Confederation’s borders encompass scores of
non-aligned worlds. Prior to the Solomani Rim War
the Confederation’s policy was to use diplomacy,
economic carrots, colonisation, political subversion or
naked force to absorb all non-aligned worlds within the
Solomani Sphere. The Solomani Rim War halted this
effort before it could be completed. With the Solomani
Confederation’s ideology and military power weakened,
many sectors of the Confederation continue to contain
worlds that either were never absorbed into the
Confederation or which broke away from it.

This not considered an ideal situation but the postwar consensus of the Confederation government and
Solomani Party has been to not bite off more than it
can chew. The Confederation is willing to tolerate the
existence of non-aligned states within its boundaries
until such time as it becomes cost-effective or
politically desirable to absorb them. The same tactics
of economic, political and military pressure are used
but the Solomani Confederation is willing to take a slow
approach where worlds pose no immediate threat.
Sometimes even willing worlds have not been permitted
to join the Confederation because factions within the
Secretariat representing existing member states believe
the cost of integration is too high. This is likely if the
world has both a low Tech Level and high population,
for example, or if its population has a high proportion
of non-Solomani. Such a planet may be deemed to be
a net drain on Confederation resources rather than a
useful prize. Politics can also affect the decision. The
Solomani Party is factionalised and it is in the interests
of each faction to ensure that when a non-aligned
world joins the Confederation it has an ideologicallycompatible government and Party. The Solomani
Party, SolSec, the military or various member state
governments may sabotage a world’s attempts to join
the Confederation in order to weaken a rival Solomani
faction. For example, the absorption of a newlycontacted Terran colony with a large, politically-active
Dolphin population could be opposed by purist factions
that wish to limit the political power of uplifted animals.

The Confederation at a Glance

The Solomani Confederation is made up of member governments, all of which have jurisdiction over their own
territory. Typically this is their entire solar system but can be a region of a balkanised planet or several systems
in the case of a multi-world government.
Member governments can take any form but must accept the authority of the central Confederation government
and will probably subscribe to the shared ideology of the Solomani people. Some members do not but align
themselves with the Confederation and accept its ways for their own reasons.
Alliances (and wars) between member governments are permitted unless some circumstance endangers the
best interests of the Confederation as a whole. Likewise, member governments have their own military and
naval forces, security services and law enforcement apparatus.
Overall, the ideal of the Solomani Confederation is that member populations are generally free to follow their
own path but have responsibilities to the Solomani people as a whole. It exists to ensure help is there when
needed and to protect the Solomani people from outside interference. Some would phrase that as ‘the purpose
of the Confederation is to keep the Imperials out of your backyard’. Simplistic as it is, this statement is not
entirely incorrect.

46

