C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

F

O

U

R

SOLOMANI SOCIETY
Solomani are ordinary humans. In most respects the
people of the Solomani Confederation are similar to their
estranged cousins in the Imperium, with whom they
share a common language and cultural history. They are
more likely to retain customs or languages traceable to
pre-star flight Terra than the average Imperial.
Solomani see themselves as independent, proud,
self-reliant and culturally diverse, with a strong sense
of individualism. They emphasise their dynamism
compared to more tradition-bound races, seeking to
push boundaries, find new solutions to old problems
and open frontiers.
Solomani in the Confederation have cultural quirks that
distinguish them from other humans and also from most
ethnic Solomani within the Imperium.
Racial Pride: Solomani are convinced of the
distinctiveness and accomplishments of their race.
This can range from a quiet pride in Solomani
accomplishments to an arrogant expression of racial
superiority over non-Solomani in general and Vilani or
Imperials in particular.
Nationalism: Solomani also believe in the pre-eminence
of their individual worlds and of the Confederation as a
nation. Their worlds share a common political ideology,
racial pride and sense of struggle that combines to
make the average Solomani more patriotic than the
average Imperial citizen. It is true that the Imperium
fosters strong patriotism amongst its nobles and those
who join its uniformed services but the Solomani will
wave the flag at every opportunity and through all levels
of society.
Every Solomani municipality has statues honouring the
ancient pioneers who colonised their world from Terra,
the politicians and militants who struggled to establish
the Solomani Party and the war heroes who died
fighting for the Cause in the Solomani Rim War. Schools
foster national pride from an early age and corporations
employ patriotic symbolism to sell their products. The
average Solomani grows up with the sense that his
society ‘just plain does it better’ and other races should

be looking up to them. Dissent is normally expressed as
disappointment in failing to live up to the ideal, rather
than criticism against the system or Confederation itself.
There is a strong sense of ‘my nation, right or wrong’.
Love of Mother Terra: Solomani tend to have an
emotional and almost spiritual connection with Terra,
the ancient home of humankind. It is commonly held
in the Confederation that a true Solomani should make
a pilgrimage to Terra’s blessed soil at least once in
their lifetime, tensions with the Imperium permitting.
An interstellar lottery run by the Solomani Party pays
for travel tickets for lucky winners. Several Solomani
religions treat Terra itself, or certain parts of it, as
holy land. That Terra is under Imperial occupation is a
festering wound in the Solomani psyche, exploited by
nationalist factions in their Solomani Party to unite the
population in seeking its liberation.
Nature’s Bounty: Unlike other human races, which
were transplanted to alien ecologies, the Solomani
evolved on a world where the animals and plants were
their biological relatives. Solomani tend to be more
comfortable using and breeding domestic animals as
working beasts, companions or livestock than other
races of Humaniti. The close bonds Solomani have
developed over tens of thousands of years with animals
like dogs, cats or horses stand out when compared to
other human races. Every other Solomani household
seems to have a beloved pet. On worlds with appropriate
environments and either poor roads or a low TL,
Terran horses, mules and camels are common. Aboard
Solomani free traders, a ship’s cat will be a valued
part of the crew, occasionally startling non-Solomani
passengers when it suddenly streaks down a corridor in
pursuit of rats or non-terrestrial vermin.
The Solomani are also unusual among other human
races in using genetic engineering to enhance the
intelligence of some of their animals to make them
better partners. Non Solomani humans are sometimes
puzzled as to which Terran animals are supposed to
be treated as pets or partners, which are livestock and
which are pests or wild animals.

47

