Solomani tend to appreciate a more diverse array of
natural cuisine than most other human races, who
could only digest some of their worlds alien flora and
fauna – and then only after extensive processing.
Over thousands of years, the most hardy and popular
Terran grains, vegetables, fruits, fungi, spices, meat
animals, poultry and fish have spread across Charted
Space. However, Solomani worlds closest to Terra are
more likely to have been seeded with a greater variety
of earthly crops and food animals or even extensively
terraformed to ensure their ecologies are teeming with
transplanted terrestrial life.

Pioneer Spirit: Solomani Confederation citizens
celebrate the pioneer spirit of Terra. Schoolbooks make
much of the way the ancient Vilani Empire doomed
itself by halting its exploration and not expanding
that one extra parsec to discover the Terrans just
beyond its border. The Solomani are pleased to have
an open frontier on their rimward border. Support
for colonisation projects and long-range exploration
missions are high. The Solomani Party claim that the
Imperium once celebrated these values but lost them
in the period after the Civil Wars. A society either grows
or it dies; the Imperium is dying.

Solomani are likelier to be discriminating gourmands,
to prefer fresh rather than processed foods and be
comfortable working in or owning farms, fisheries or
ranches. Their cities are filled with a bewildering array
of restaurants and food markets. It has been said,
not entirely in jest, that the real reason the Imperium
insisted on capturing Terra was to ensure a supply of its
famous wines and coffees for the Emperor’s table.

Romanticism: The loss of Terra and other worlds in the
Solomani Rim War was a serious blow to the Solomani
sense of superiority, yet did not destroy it. Decades
have dulled the initial pain. The epic struggle of the
Rim War culminating in the fall of Terra that bought
time for the escape of Wolfe’s grand fleet has now been
romanticised into a narrative of heroic bloodshed in
which outnumbered Solomani fought gallant rear-guard
actions and last stands, their sacrifice saving the rest of
the Confederation from destruction.

Mild Paranoia: The Solomani see their Confederation
as having no friends; instead they are surrounded by
competitors and enemies. Due to the peculiarities of
the political system, Solomani also tend to assume
people are watching them, so are careful of what they
say in public or at work. On the other hand, many
Solomani cities have less street crime and fewer
homeless drifters.

48

The Imperium’s success is popularly attributed to its
sheer size; it is obvious that a big enough mob can
eventually pull down any single fighter, no matter how
skilled they are. The sacrifices during wartime and the
efforts to rebuild afterward also serve as a moral lesson
for the current generation, who are encouraged to
emulate the heroes of the past.

