Sport: The Solomani love of competitive sports and
games is typical of many species but Solomani tend to
take enthusiasm to extremes, even when they are mere
spectators. The Solomani Party spends considerable
tax resources on training elite athletes for the honour
of the Solomani Cause. The Olympic Games continued
to be held every four years on Terra until the Solomani
Rim War.

The Solomani Cause

The key difference between Solomani and Imperials
is the widespread belief in the Solomani Cause. This
philosophy’s origins are discussed in the History chapter
on page 20. It can be interpreted in several different
ways, which lead to factional disputes. Its central
precepts are:
•

•

•

•

All of Humaniti are exceptional, as demonstrated
through their wide diffusion through Charted Space
and their control of the greatest and most powerful
of interstellar civilisations. Humans are superior to
other aliens.
The Solomani were the first and true species of
Humaniti, who evolved naturally on Terra. Their
racial origin, as well as their culture and historical
achievements make them superior to the other races
of Humaniti.
This superiority means the Solomani have a special
manifest destiny. It is their duty to themselves
and the universe to dominate Charted Space and
eventually the entire galaxy.
Intermingling with other human races threatens to
dilute what makes Solomani special, both culturally
and genetically. The Solomani destiny is best
achieved through leadership of other races or failing
that, the Solomani’s own efforts.

The Solomani Movement and the Cause

The Solomani Movement is composed of all those who
sincerely believe in the Solomani Cause, whether they
are organised officially or not. This consists of the
organised Solomani Party along with their disorganised
or apolitical supporters. Probably about 25% of racial
Solomani in the Solomani Sphere self-identify as part
of the Solomani Movement. Many other Solomani agree
with the Cause but do not actively support it.
The Solomani Movement do not usually claim their race
is inherently smarter or stronger. Instead, they see its
unique origin and successful history as demonstrating
its superiority and destiny. The Solomani Movement
uses evidence from biology, archaeology and history
to reinforce their point but two central themes of the
Solomani Cause are historical facts:

•
•

Solomani are directly descended from the original
human race native to Terra.
Solomani have impressive achievements in the
political and technical fields compared to other
races. They developed jump drive on their own,
overcame the Vilani Empire from a position of
weakness, were instrumental in creating the
Third Imperium and did found the Solomani
Confederation – two of the most powerful states in
Charted Space – not to mention successful smaller
powers such as the Sword Worlds.

The fact-based argument does not make the claims
of superiority true but it does mean they cannot be
disproved as long as the Solomani continue to exist as
a distinct people. The Solomani Movement counters
critics who make reference to failures, such as their loss
of Terra to the Imperium, by stating that these are a
natural cycle of history. Their race has suffered defeats
before, like the collapse of the Rule of Man, only to rise
again. Each time the Solomani have suffered a major
setback they return purified by the fires of adversity,
learning from their mistakes and stronger than ever.
The Solomani Movement believe the only thing that
can defeat the cause is the elimination of the Solomani
as a distinct race. Since extermination is unlikely, the
primary threat to the Solomani Cause is the dilution of
the race’s cultural and genetic heritage through mixing
Solomani with other human races such as the Vilani.
This is why participation in a mixed-race society such as
the Imperium is considered an existential threat to the
Solomani Cause and why hardcore Solomani advocate
racial separatism.
Being a pure-blooded Solomani is seen by many to be
a challenge rather than a birthright. The Solomani are
not inherently better but have the potential to be. This
translates as being dealt a very good hand in a poker
game – it is still necessary to play the cards well and
opponents may be very skilled. This idea leads to a
generally respectful attitude towards outsiders – contrary
to Imperial propaganda. After all, where is the glory in
winning a game against no-hopers and clueless noobs?
Thus there is a real sense of responsibility to live up
to the Solomani ideal of dynamism, inventiveness and
bravery, which has created a self-fulfilling prophecy. The
average Solomani is conditioned to be competitive and
to try hard to outdo non-Solomani. Trying hard often
leads to success or at least a better performance than
someone who is just going through the motions. This
in turn perpetuates the idea of Solomani superiority by
creating a string of successes or at least performances
that win the respect of others.

49

