Stand With Me

The noblest expression of the Solomani ideal is the concept of ‘Stand By Me’. A Solomani is not entitled
to expect others to kneel before them, and should not in any case. Their destiny is far nobler; they are the
leaders who help non-Solomani see what they could be. Their role is to show others how to get off their
knees and stand on their own two (or more) feet in a turbulent universe. Naturally, the Solomani can expect
to receive adulation and respect for providing this leadership. Their role is to elevate others to greatness
and to stand among them as the first among equals.
As with other Solomani ideals, this attitude can lead to unpleasant places. Those who reject the help and
inspiration offered will be despised and there is a tendency to assume that at least some non-Solomani
are incapable of guiding their own destiny. The ‘Stand With Me’ ideal is positive when seen in the light of
a teacher helping young children to learn to read and write – they are not to be despised for not knowing
yet but instead respected for what they might do with the knowledge. A wealthy person who helps someone
fund a business without looking down on the prospective business owner for not being rich yet is another
example of this ideal at its best. Some Solomani look at it the other way round, however, and act more like
entitled rich people towards the ‘lower orders’ whose only fault was not being born into wealth.
Advocates of this philosophy might say that the Imperial Nobility considers its members better than other
citizens and assumes they have a right to lead based on an accident of birth. It is the same for Solomani,
who were effectively born into the royal line of the human race.

There is a dark side to this sense of superiority, however.
Coming second to a non-Solomani is an embarrassment,
and some are motivated to assume their rivals cheated
or that the situation was rigged against them. This can
lead to the portrayal of some outsider groups as devious
and untrustworthy, which creates the unpleasantly racist
attitudes seen in some areas.

Races in the Confederation

The Solomani Confederation has an overwhelmingly
human population, although not all humans in the
Confederation are genetically Solomani.
Pure Solomani: The original human species that evolved
on Terra. Pure Solomani make up about 80% of the
population of the present-day Solomani Confederation. The
percentage on individual worlds may vary considerably.
Mixed Human: The ordinary mix of Solomani and
non-Solomani genetic heritage found throughout the
Imperium. They form a lower middle class on many
worlds near the Imperial border. Mixed humans are
generally considered ‘non-Solomani’ by many Solomani
and by Party dogma but their status can vary from worldto-world.
Non-Solomani Human: Most of these individuals are
of Vilani blood or more commonly a mix of pure
Vilani and one of the other subject races the original
Vilani conquered. Non-Solomani population in the
Confederation are concentrated in the parts of the Old

50

Expanses and the coreward region of Alpha Crucis.
They are usually, but not always, subject to significant
discrimination and are the most likely to be involved in
active resistance to Solomani control. Typically this is
limited to low-level dissent but can include terrorism
and guerrilla warfare.
Aslan: A few human worlds on the Confederation’s
spinward frontier have Aslan enclaves, the result
of exchanges of population that took place in the
Border Wars and afterward. Aslan enclaves exist at the
sufferance of world governments and with the knowledge
that there are some similar human enclaves on the other
side of the border, so a modicum of mutual tolerance is
required to avoid reprisal. Aslan citizens are valued for
their usefulness in business relations with cross-border
Hierate clans and their willingness to provide soldiers
to serve in special mercenary formations. Outside of the
spinward regions of the Confederation, Aslan citizens
tend to be mistaken for foreign visitors, which usually
gets them better treatment than other minorities.
Primitive Indigenous Aliens: Many intelligent species
seem to spend hundreds of thousands of years at the
TL0 stage before they achieve the social organisation or
technology needed to progress further. Thus, the odds
favour encountering races that are still at a primitive
level. Several such races exist in the rimward sectors
of the Confederation who had the misfortune to be
contacted by the Solomani Autonomous Region or
Solomani Confederation. They were classed as primitive

