indigenous aliens or ‘prindigs’ for short. Solomani
settlement of prindig homeworlds typically proceeded
without much regard to the local population. There was
rarely any malice but colonists simply arrived and took
over whatever areas they pleased.

decline. A similar fate could still befall the newlydiscovered Sciapods, although a promising pilot
programme in which their young are removed and
raised under direct human supervision has a chance
of succeeding.

In some cases the prindigs were deliberately coopted as workers. In others they were moved onto
reservations. More commonly, the prindigs retreated
from areas claimed by human settlers, typically
into marginal land. Many of these areas were later
declared as reservations but there are several worlds
where the human population and the indigenous race
generally stay apart without a formal arrangement in
place. Attempts to rationalise relations with primitive
indigenous species or to integrate them into the
Confederation as productive citizens, have proceeded
in fits and starts for centuries but only recently has a
concerted effort been made.

Dolphins: Sentient Dolphins have been around for
thousands of years and are considered citizens,
although outside their own communities they have
little representation in politics. The average Solomani
likes uplifted Dolphins and sees them to be loyal junior
partners in the Confederation. A significant minority
of Solomani disagree and think of them as ‘just smart
animals’ or even as unnatural freaks. There have been
instances where established uplifted Dolphin pods
have clashed with Solomani business or industrial
interests over the control of fisheries or ocean pollution
but these are rare. A liberal minority of Solomani even
think Dolphins deserve higher status, as they evolved
on Terra they may be as much Solomani as anyone.
Those views are also outside the mainstream but
gaining traction.

During the Solomani Rim War diversion of population
into the military created a need for cheap labour. To fill
it the Colonial Office decided to embark on a policy in
which some prindigs were given basic education and
recruited as workers. In the process entire cultures
were obliterated, the better to ensure assimilation into
the lower levels of Solomani society. Prindig races
that can manage human speech are educated only in
Anglic; they are encouraged to adopt Solomani culture,
dress and living standards as far as their species’
physical capabilities and environment requirements
can permit.
The six-limbed nocturnal Tadonga or ‘Ding-Dongs’
found a niche as assembly line and fast food workers;
they have become the trademark of the ubiquitous
Confederation-wide SolBurger chain. The docile and
attractive humanoid ‘Ladybugs’ of Alpha Crucis are
equally widespread in domestic service. The strong,
fast-breeding Zarm and, despite some early racial
unrest, the diminutive Kvaz or ‘Chuckies’ find gainful
employment as agricultural day labourers throughout
the Confederation.
Although the Colonial Office and SolSec’s Integration
Section attempts to facilitate assimilation, not all
races have been successes. The Neozinga of Aldebaran
resisted offers to relocate them during the Solomani
Rim War; their attacks on human settlements led
to extinction. The Gamopedes of Canopus, while
peaceful, failed to adapt to a high technology lifestyle
and stopped reproducing altogether. The aquatic
Xabulamanti swarms are perhaps too alien to adjust to
the concept of Solomani society and, under pressure
from uplifted Dolphin colonists, they continue to

Apes: Similar attitudes to Dolphins apply but Apes tend
to be stereotyped as a loyal, hard-working but mentally
inferior worker class who can never be the equal of
humans and should stay out of polite society. Only
a few radical Solomani liberals advocate otherwise.
Provided the Ape knows their place, Solomani tend to
like them. There is a mild undercurrent of unease that
Apes can ‘revert’ to dangerous animals if provoked;
police or armed citizens faced with an angry uplifted
Ape tend to shoot first and ask questions later; they
will rarely get in trouble for excessive force. This
overreaction has been fanned in recent years by
persistent rumours of secret genetic experiments to
create super-Apes or further enhance the intelligence
of other great apes. Such ‘genetic war’ stories are
dismissed as nonsense by most authorities.
Vargr: Attitudes towards the Vargr can vary
considerably. Many Confederation citizens feel that
that the Vargr should be a client race of the Solomani,
since they are uplifted Terran animals. However,
due to the distances involved there is little contact
between Vargr and the average Solomani-in-the-street.
Perceptions are distorted by the fact that the Imperial
Navy has many Vargr personnel and Vargr were among
the ground troops deployed in the Solomani Rim War.
Media also plays a part in this twisted perception.
‘Vargr corsairs’ are popular in Solomani adventure
dramas set in the Imperium as exotic pirate sidekicks
to Solomani guerrillas or rebels fighting deep inside
Imperial territory. The idea that a Vargr could rise high
in Imperial society or even become a major noble is
difficult for many Solomani to comprehend.

51

