Other Major and Minor Races: There are relatively few
non-humans living in the Confederation and their
treatment can vary considerably. Some are the subject
of prejudice and suspicion; others are treated as fellow
citizens or respected visitors. An unusual alien might
cause a stir of genuine curiosity – which might lead
to the individual being pestered with silly questions
– or possibly even fear. This is less likely close to
major starports, where alien visitors are not all that
uncommon. Where there are significant populations of
non-humans, historical factors will dictate whether they
are considered also-citizens or an underclass.

Racism, Bigotry and the Call to Greatness

Solomani society is undeniably racist. Non-Solomani
are barred from joining the Solomani Party and thus
unlikely to attain positions of power above a local level.
However, the portrayal of Solomani as almost cartoonlike haters of anything that did not spring from the
holy soil of Terra is highly inaccurate. It has suited the
purposes of the Imperium to paint the Solomani as
nasty racists and themselves as a diverse and welcoming
culture. Popular media has done much to strengthen
this impression, using the Solomani as convenient and
easily hateable bad guys whose nefarious motives need
little explanation.
The reality is more complex, however. The Solomani
feel superior to all other branches of Humaniti but that
does not translate to hate or malice. Likewise, aliens
might be viewed with suspicion or even despised due
to historical interactions but the average Solomani
would find the idea of hating someone he had never
met just because they were different as ridiculous as
any Imperial citizen would.
To the Solomani, the situation is clear and simple. They
are a little bit better than everyone else but that does
not make anyone bad. Non-Solomani humans and nonhumans are viewed on their merits; some are worthy
and capable, others are not. The same applies to other
Solomani – friendship and hatred are earned by deeds
and words, not race or kinship. Indeed, the average
Solomani does not expect anyone to treat them as if
they are better just because they are a Solomani. They
do, however, expect to be judged fairly for what they do
and it is here that they prove their superiority.
Ingrained within the Solomani psyche is what might be
called a ‘Call to Greatness’. Mediocrity is acceptable
for other races but the Solomani are expected to excel.
This applies to them as a people and as individuals.
Solomani are taught that they are not better because
they are Solomani; they must strive to be better than

52

everyone else in order to be Solomani. Thus to be
Solomani is a challenge that only the best could rise to
and in so doing individuals and groups prove their worth.
To be born a Solomani means knowing from the cradle
that you have enormous potential and that you are
expected to fulfil it. This is the one factor that makes
Solomani different from others – at least according to
the Solomani. Others may or may not think they can
succeed but the Solomani know they can. This does not
mean everything will be easy or there will be no setbacks
– striving for greatness is always dangerous. Nor does it
mean non-Solomani are worthless. Others can achieve
too and they must be fairly judged. Respect must be
given to those who do well, if it is to be expected when
the Solomani inevitably outdo the competition.
Thus to the Solomani, it feels like they have been
dealt a good hand, perhaps a little better than the
other players, but the game must still be played and
defeat means disgrace. The other players at the table
may well be very good but that is just a spur to attain
even greater heights of achievement. After all, what
is the point of winning a game if the opposition was
a pushover? The respect of defeated players would
mean nothing if they were inept buffoons. What,
ultimately, is the point of being the best if nobody
else is any good at all?
This attitude can engender a very positive outlook
towards non-Solomani. Far from finding the worst in
other races, those who aspire to this ideal seek the best
– and then try to be better. However, it can manifest in
darker ways. The mildest of these is the exclusion of
non-Solomani from positions of power and governance.
This is sometimes done to protect the Solomani way of
life and sometimes it is due to an unspoken belief that
only a Solomani can meet the challenge of leading other
Solomani. This is most definitely racist, although not the
spiteful hatred typically portrayed in popular media.
Some groups within the Solomani Confederation take
the idea of superiority to a nasty extreme. These people
have come to believe that since they are better than
everyone else, nobody else matters. In truth such
people exist in all societies but the institutional racism
of the Solomani Confederation provides reinforcement
to their beliefs and facilitates actions against those
deemed to be inferior. In most areas there are policies
against such behaviour but even so there does tend to
be a bias in favour of Solomani over others. This can
lead to injustice throughout society in terms of salary,
law enforcement and social privileges. Active, direct
harassment and victimisation is rare, however, and is the
work of individuals or small groups rather than society
as a whole.

