Solomani are also taught that it is their destiny and
responsibility to show others the way forward. This
might be through example, inspirational actions or
direct leadership. This attitude can be patronising or
condescending but often the efforts of Solomani to
elevate themselves above others is well-meant and, in
an odd way, generous. By providing good governance
the Solomani can put others on the right track, which
is to everyone’s benefit. Of course, this can easily slip
over into contempt for those who are led or governed
and challenges to authority cannot be tolerated.
Racist policies such as restricted immigration are part
of a package of measures intended to preserve the
purity of the Solomani people. As they see it, their
potential for greatness is so important that it must
be jealously protected. If the Solomani ‘spark’ was
to be diluted or lost, the whole universe would be
diminished. With no-one to lead the way or to show
what could be done, mediocrity would reign. Again,
this can easily slip over into a policy of not wanting
‘inferiors’ in society and those inclined that way
are rarely challenged. Racist policies have at times
resulted in opposition that led to conflict, with illfeeling lasting long after the matter was settled. Thus
the mistrust of some non-Solomani results not from
deliberate racism but from historical events triggered
by racist policies. To many the distinction matters
little, especially those who want to paint the Solomani
as oppressive tyrants.
The desire to maintain Solomani purity may stem
from high-minded ideals but some of its effects are
highly unpleasant. Many Solomani will subconsciously
question the competence of a non-Solomani official
and, since high positions and the salaries that go with
them are denied to non-Solomani, they are often seen
as inferior due to the social strata they occupy. Lack
of social mobility and opportunity for advancement
pushes a higher proportion of non-Solomani into crime
or ‘fringe’ occupations. Thus Solomani are often used
to seeing non-Solomani as inferiors. This can reinforce
stereotypes and harden attitudes.
Overall, the society of the Solomani Confederation
makes it easier for those who want to behave in a
negative or hateful way towards non-Solomani but
does not actively encourage it. Indeed, the message in
general is ‘they’re good, but we’re better!’. A typical
Solomani would compare their own attitudes to those
of a top-end athlete towards amateurs who do not train
properly or a member of the Imperial nobility towards
pretty much anyone who is not. These people would
certainly say they were better than others but whether
they might or might not deliberately put them down
depends on the individual’s personality.

If this complex situation can be neatly summed up,
it is by the idea that the Solomani do not despise
others for what they are; they simply feel they are
better because they are what the others are not. The
Solomani Confederation is certainly racist but it is
motivated by snobbery rather than hate. In this, the
Solomani would say they are no different to members
of the Imperial nobility looking down on those who lack
their refinement, wealth, education or power. Does not
the Imperium have privileges for those who are of noble
birth? Are there not barriers to entry into the nobility?
Are there not jobs that can only be held by a noble?
The Solomani would say that they have no nobility
because they are all noble and their nobility brings
with it an obligation to lead, guide and sometimes
correct those who need it. They might also say
that the Imperials need to mind their own damned
business. After all, their system is also based on the
idea that some people are better than others due to
their circumstances of birth. They just picked the
wrong people.

Genetic Profiling

Confederation worlds of TL7+ routinely perform
genetic testing of human infants either soon after
birth or as a prenatal process, depending on the
world. Standardised genetic testing practices and
policies are developed on Home by the Ministry of
Genetics and used throughout the Confederation.
Similar testing is performed on any citizen of the
Imperium or other foreign state who wishes to
emigrate to the Solomani Confederation.
Although mass genetic testing is used to assess racial
Solomani status, which can determine eligibility for
Party membership, it is seen as a public good for
other reasons. Determining a citizen’s genetic profile
is an important part of high-technology medicine. The
testing also determines their subspecies, which is
clearly listed on birth certificates and identity papers.
The Solomani government takes pains to point out
that some races have different medical issues or even
different dietary needs and vulnerabilities to diseases,
all of which are genetically linked.
This means that whenever a Confederation citizen
does anything that requires showing official papers,
such as applying for a weapon or pilot’s license,
opening a bank account, receiving medical treatment
or passing through customs at a starport, their race
will be apparent. On most high Law Level worlds,
authorities and employers routinely check identity
papers. This is true on Imperial as well as Solomani
planets; the difference is that racial origin is always
clearly indicated in Confederation documents. How

53

