this will influence reactions depends on the local
culture, the dominant faction of the ruling Solomani
Party on the planet and the personal attitudes of the
individuals involved.

find delight in their differences. One group may argue
that their homeworld culture is the best of them all but
they will still admire that of another Confederation world
as being a ‘proper Old Earth’ society.

FASHION AND

This attitude is at odds with the typical Imperial
portrayal of the Solomani as bigots and xenophobes.
The latter is partially fuelled by Solomani contempt
for what they call ‘bland Imperial consumerism’. From
the Solomani point of view the Imperium is driven by
corporate greed and everything is channelled towards
a form that will most efficiently part citizens from their
credits. This viewpoint is as skewed as the Imperial one
regarding Solomani culture but there is a kernel of truth
to it. Centuries of market research have given Imperial
corporations clear indications of what is commercially
successful and what is less so, with firms straying far
from these most-efficient forms tending to be eclipsed
by those who follow the rules for market success. This
does tend to stifle variety, other than when something
out of the ordinary is desirable for marketing purposes.

TRADITION

Citizens of the Confederation are taught that the
cultures of Old Earth are the best in the universe… but
there are rather a lot of them. Indeed, the worlds of
the Confederation are far more culturally diverse than
in most regions of the Imperium. Whilst the high-level
institutions and services of the Confederation use the
same symbology everywhere, member worlds tend to
be heavily influenced by their founding cultures. This
means that a world that was originally settled by South
American colonists will look, feel and sound different to
one whose original population came from West Africa.
These founding cultures have drifted over time and
there can be significant differences between those of
two worlds settled from the same region. This can cause
disputes or become running jokes depending upon
circumstances but on the whole the Solomani people

The Solomani people, on the other hand, are bombarded
with propaganda about the Solomani Cause, which has
the (probably unintentional) effect of counteracting or

Traditional Vilani vs. Imperial Culture

Most Confederation citizens feel that the Imperium is a cultural betrayal of the heritage of Old Earth.
Terra produced so many wonderful and vibrant cultures but the Imperium suppressed them in favour of
megacorporate marketing guidance. It now wants to do the same to the worlds of the Confederation through
commercial imperialism.
Oddly perhaps, there is considerable respect and even admiration for traditional Vilani culture. The Vilani
managed to get everything wrong, of course, with their stagnant empire and general lack of ambition, but their
traditional culture has a lot to admire about it. It is an authentic human culture, which grew up in isolation and
whilst it loses points for not being on Terra it produced great art and science, as well as a huge and long-lasting
empire. Solomani respect that achievement and cite it as a cautionary tale – the Vilani were once outward-looking
and driven. Once they stagnated and became dominated by their megacorporations their society was doomed.
According to this viewpoint, the collapse of the Vilani Imperium serves as a warning to those who would stop
pushing the boundaries. The Imperium did not heed the warning but moved from a dynamic, Solomani-led
stance to a ‘Vilanified’ corporate-dominated edifice of stagnation. Its collapse is inevitable.
To those that hold this view the Vilani are rather tragic people. They did well at first but lost their drive,
probably because they were not Solomani. If they had been, they could have gone on expanding forever!
There is much to be admired about the old Vilani culture and many warnings to be found in its history. As for
the Imperium, it is a force for stagnation and entropy but the real enemy is not the Imperium itself; it is the
megacorporations.
‘Might as well hand it over to the megacorps’ is a phrase used often, in various contexts, throughout the
Confederation. It can mean a situation has become as bad as it can be or that a course of action would be as
utterly unthinkable as abandoning vibrant Solomani culture for bland corporate consumerism. This attitude,
as much as the tariffs and legislation imposed by the Confederation government, helps limit megacorporate
influence in the Solomani Sphere.

54

