even creating contempt for this move towards corporate
conformity. Confederation citizens are constantly
reminded that the many and varied cultures of their
Confederation, coming as they do from authentic Old
Earth roots, are better than the corporate blandness of
the Imperium.
Thus when moving around the Confederation a Traveller
will see a greater variety of cultural influences and styles
than in Imperial space. In fact, this variance exists there
too but the regions around starports – which is where
Travellers tend to go – are subject to heavy corporate
influences. Items of dress, art, music and food are all
subject to considerable variation, although there are
underlying Confederation-standard norms.
The ideal of maintaining purity of the Solomani
bloodline is paralleled by the idea that homeworld
cultures should be prized and protected. This has
helped traditional art styles, signature dishes and odd
turns of phrase survive despite centuries of inter-world
contact. Naturally, cultural drift has ensured that what
is considered the correct traditional way of serving a
given dish or speaking Anglic might be different to what
is thought to be traditional on another world but the
Solomani people are taught that their many cultures

are a source of strength and unity, and that they must
respect the traditions of other member worlds. After all,
they may have misremembered how to make panackelty
but their wrong recipe is the product of an authentic
Solomani culture. Even when they are doing it wrong,
the other culture is doing it right – so long as they are
Solomani of course.
This embracing of cultural drift as part of the wider
Solomani culture is difficult for outsiders to understand.
Many actually believe there was a ‘panackelty war’ in
that millions died. In fact, this outrageous tale is a
cultural fable which has been retold since ancient
times. It concerns a dispute over how to make
panackelty, a cheap dish of leftovers popular in parts
of northern Europe, in which one state committed the
heresy of adding sliced carrots and peas. Escalation
left millions dead, cities blasted to ruin and SolSec
with the job of expunging the incorrect recipe from
history. SolSec’s own information datasite has the
‘correct’ recipe posted without comment or context,
on a high-profile page of its own. It appears that even
SolSec has a sense of humour but the best joke is that
some Imperial historians have inserted the Panackelty
War into official histories of the Solomani People.

55

