Overall, Travellers in the Solomani Confederation will
know they are travelling. Starports are owned by the
host world and reflect its unique flavour along with
aspects of Confederation-norm society. Tailoring, food,
music, architecture and design philosophy all differ
from one world to the next. Generally, traditional
garments are incorporated into modern dress styles,
either wholesale or in a stylised aspect. On one world
the traditional keffiah head-dress might still be worn as
such; on another it has morphed into a rustic-looking
tie worn even with formal businesswear. Elsewhere,
bright patterning in traditional African styles might
appear on traditional clothing or be incorporated into a
particularly eye-catching three-piece suit.

SYMBOLOGY

The Solomani Movement and the Confederation use
various symbols, most of which can be traced back to
Old Earth.
Solomani Cross: This is the ancient astrological/
astronomical symbol for Earth, a cross inside a circle.
It symbolises the Solomani Party and until 870 was
also the flag of the Solomani Autonomous Region.
The Solomani Cross is employed on Party membership
cards, stationary, vehicles and other paraphernalia and
flown as a flag above Solomani Party offices. The colour
can vary but the Party prefers a black cross on white.
The Solomani Cross is also used in Solomani military
insignia. In regions outside the Confederation where
the Party is an underground movement or in areas of
racial turmoil, it is used as pro Solomani political graffiti
to mark neighbourhoods or terrorise non-Solomani by
spraying it on houses and businesses.
Solomani Confederation Symbol: The interstellar
government of the Solomani Confederation, the
Secretariat, voted to adopt a modified Solomani Cross
as a flag and symbol in 871. This is a Solomani Cross
flanked by two olive branches, evoking symbols used by
the old Terran United Nations and Terran Confederation.
Various colours are used; government buildings and
embassies may use this symbol in white on a sky blue
field, known as the Flag of the Secretariat, while the
military insignia is a black or low-visibility grey. The
symbol distinguishes officials, agencies and facilities
operated by the interstellar government from those
operated by the Party or by individual worlds.
Rising Phoenix: In official ceremonies to mark the
bicentennial of the Solomani Confederation in 1071 the
Confederation unveiled another symbol, a stylised fiery
bird, wings spread, arising from a solar hemisphere.
This symbolised the Confederation’s rebirth from the

56

ashes of the Solomani Rim War. It also honoured the
continuing efforts of Solomani resistance fighters within
the Occupied Systems; guerrilla units on Terra used
‘Phoenix’ as a codename and rallying cry. The Rising
Phoenix stands for the entire Solomani people as a
unified nation. It is now used on official seals, stationary
and stamps and emblazoned on government buildings,
and is also the logo that appears on Confederation
media channels. It is not used as an actual flag; the
Confederation still flies the Flag of the Secretariat, while
the Party continues to use the Solomani Cross. It is
typically red on a white field.
Solomani Security Symbol: SolSec uses a stylised shield
as its emblem divided into quarters by the horizontal
and vertical lines of the Solomani Cross. Some variants
add a circle, creating a Solomani Cross inside the shield
– the imagery is obvious. In some areas outside the
Confederation, a variety of false symbols are attributed
to SolSec. These include an eagle with a Solomani cross
in its talons and a shield pierced by a point-down sword
with the Solomani Cross inside a star at the centre.
These fake symbols seem to be a subtle propaganda
campaign, allowing interested citizens to draw parallels
between SolSec and some of the nastiest regimes in
Terran history.
Military Insignia and Colours: The Rising Phoenix and
Solomani Confederation symbol are incorporated into
cap or shoulder rank badges. The Solomani Cross
and Solomani Confederation symbols are both used
as roundels to identify Solomani combat vehicles,
aircraft and spacecraft. Warships typically use the
Confederation symbol on the ship’s side and the
Solomani Cross on wings or fins. The Rising Phoenix
is increasingly used as additional blazon to identify
Confederation Navy vessels, especially capital ships
and sometimes as a tail fin art on Navy fighters.
Home Guard forces use the Solomani Cross along with
local insignia, as the Rising Phoenix and Flag of the
Secretariat are reserved for Confederation Army and
Confederation Navy units
Transstar: The Solomani megacorporation uses a
Solomani Cross that is encircled by 13 stars, one for
each of the sectors that its routes extend into.
Worlds: Planetary governments may have their own flags
and symbols. Some of these predate the Confederation
but they have often been modified through Party
influence to incorporate variations of the Solomani
Cross, demonstrating their support for the Cause.

