MARSHALS AND
HEROES OF THE

CONFEDERATION

In the Imperium, many nobles have an assumed right
and responsibility to take control of any situation. This
is backed by the Imperial Warrant system whereby the
Emperor grants specific powers to an individual. In a few
rare cases these powers are not limited or specific; the
warrant holder is assumed to speak for the Emperor. In
the Solomani Confederation, senior Party rank typically
serves the same function. However, there are two
statuses that can be conferred on someone who is not a
senior Party member – in fact they do not have to be a
Party member at all and may not even be Solomani.

Hero of the Confederation

The status of Hero of the Confederation is conferred
upon those who have excelled beyond all measure.
This may be in the military, scientific, commercial
or diplomatic arena, or sometimes other areas of
endeavour. The status of Hero is not awarded for being
famous or popular – although that often comes with
the territory – but is instead based upon services to the
Solomani people and the Confederation as a whole.
Most Heroes have been military commanders,
exploration leaders or scientists who made important
breakthroughs. Exceptions include ordinary soldiers
whose exploits inspired future generations and a doctor
who stayed behind in a quarantined area to make the
breakthrough that halted the Home Pandemic of 1067
at the cost of becoming fatally infected herself.
To qualify, service must be to the Confederation or
Solomani people as a whole. There is also a political
dimension to the award – Heroes are meant to inspire
the people of the Confederation and thus the award
is in part a social manipulation tool. Thus saving the
liner carrying several members of the Secretariat will
earn rewards and praise but not Hero status since
the Confederation can survive without any given set
of individuals. On the other hand, the leader of a
resistance pocket which held out for months after the
Fall of Terra was made a Hero of the Confederation even
though he was ultimately defeated.
There must be an element of danger or risk involved in
the exploit. The greatest composer of all time, or the
most popular entertainment artist, might be important
to the Solomani Cause but they cannot be named a Hero
unless their work involves significant risk. Attempts to
alter this stance have met with vigorous resistance – not
least from existing Heroes of the Confederation.

A Hero is of course expected to be an example of
the virtues that make the Solomani people great.
Mavericks are not considered for Hero and those
who use their status to pursue a different agenda are
‘corrected’ by various means. Very occasionally nonSolomani or even non-humans have been awarded
Hero status. Some of these figures are controversial
but most are simply people who did something
exceptional on behalf of the Confederation.
Hero status comes with an annual pension and the
award of an estate on a suitable planet or installation.
A Hero can choose to live quietly in comfort if they
wish but most continue to serve the Confederation in
some way. Hero status has no legal powers or mandated
benefits but no high-end hotel would fail to make the
best rooms available to a Hero of the Confederation.
Likewise the advice of such a figure is likely to be
heeded. In game terms, a Hero of the Confederation
would have little difficulty in getting an audience with
the planetary government and would not normally be
required to make a check for such actions. However,
if the Hero wants something – such as the use of a
starship – the request might not be granted. Essentially
the Hero gets to ask for things that would not be
considered if they came from an ordinary person but
they still have to justify the reasoning or persuade the
authorities to grant the request.

Marshals of the Confederation

The Secretariat has the power to confer Marshal status
on an individual. Marshals have a status that Heroes
do not – they are assumed to represent the Secretariat
and can give orders to almost anyone. A Marshal can
in theory walk into an admiral’s office and demand a
battleship for their personal use, which will be granted
without question.
In practice, whilst an order from a Marshal will be
obeyed, it will also be reported to the Secretariat and
the local branch of SolSec. A Marshal’s entourage will
inevitably contain a number of SolSec enforcers who are
empowered to arrest or even eliminate a Marshal who is
acting against the best interests of the Confederation.
The enforcer will then have to account for their actions,
of course; shooting a Marshal is not a small matter.
Any given Marshal will have a field of expertise in which
they are renowned. This is normally strategic, political
or economic. Marshals are expected to have a broad
grounding in other areas, sufficient to understand the
wider issues, but are not expected to be able to perform
at the highest level in all areas. Whilst a Marshal’s
powers are broad, they are normally assigned a field of
endeavour or specific remit. Acting outside of this will

57

