raise questions but there is no reason why a Marshal
with a background in economics cannot assume
command of a naval force if necessary. If the Marshal
is successful, the action is considered justified. If not,
they will be called to account and face penalties up to
summary execution for incompetently misusing their
powers. One of the greatest responsibilities carried by a
Marshal is the choice to intervene, advise or stay out of
the way.
A Marshal is awarded a baton – an ancient Terran
tradition – which in this case contains sophisticated
encryption and communications equipment. A marshal’s
baton gives access to classified databases and in some
cases can be used to unlock information the system’s
normal users did not know was there. A Marshal may be
able to present a fleet admiral with data from their own
system, which was not accessible or even known to the
naval officials. This information does not belong to the
navy; it is the property of the Confederation as a whole
and offered when needed.
The relationship between a Marshal and current
commanders in the area can be tricky. The Marshal
will undoubtedly cause friction if they just walk in
and assume command. The usual procedure is for
the Marshal to take control of the situation but leave
command of assets to the existing personnel unless
they are clearly unfit. A Marshal is in any case wasted
on micromanagement; their role is on a bigger stage.
Thus a Marshal might be sent to improve the economic
situation in a cluster of worlds but would not run around
making deals. Instead they would meet with leaders and
make sure they know what they are expected to do. At
the same time the Marshal will find out what the local
leaders need and use their powers to obtain it.
Marshals generally operate at the highest levels, on a
big-picture basis. They can help solve small problems
if local expertise is lacking but this is directed towards
a high-level result. Marshals are empowered to make
requests of anyone at all, other than the Secretariat
itself. However, there is a hierarchy to the level of
obedience required.
•
•
•

58

Confederation assets (such as the Navy or the
Ministry of Justice) are required to obey.
Member Government assets (such as Home Forces
or a world’s treasury) are expected to obey and will
face investigation by SolSec if they refuse.
Private assets (for example individuals and
companies) are advised to obey and may be
investigated if they decline.

This hierarchy can be used to get things done even
against opposition. A local shipping corporation
can legally refuse a request from a Marshal but the
Marshal can then order the Ministry of Justice to go
through the company’s affairs and prosecute over every
tiny infraction, or they can apply pressure on local
governments to impose tariffs on the company’s ships.
A request is thus usually a matter for a little bargaining
and possibly some intimidation but ultimately the
subject can take a stand if they feel the Marshal is
acting inappropriately.
A Marshal who does misuse their powers, or who uses
them in an incompetent manner, may be stripped of
their status by the Secretariat. If there is no time,
SolSec enforcers will take action. Officials are also
permitted to query orders that will have obvious
major consequences. Much depends upon context.
For example, if a Marshal of the Confederation turns
up unexpectedly and orders a fleet to undertake
immediate offensive actions against the Imperium,
the admiral commanding that fleet is empowered to
request justification of that order. If, on the other
hand, a Marshal has been given command of the
region’s forces by the Secretariat and the admiral is in
possession of all the appropriate paperwork, the order
may be obeyed without hesitation because it fits with
the perceived situation.
Obviously, Marshals wield enormous power and
with that comes a great responsibility. The status is
not conferred lightly and Marshals are continually
monitored by SolSec enforcers. Their decisions
are scrutinised by the Secretariat and at any time
a Marshal can be called to Home to account for
their actions. On the other hand, Marshals are
well paid and afforded the highest respect. They
are empowered to walk into any situation, present
their baton for authentication and assume whatever
position they desire. Wielding such power and bearing
such responsibility becomes tiring for most; it is
common for a Marshal to return their baton after
only a few years’ service. This is the one decision
a Marshal of the Confederation cannot be called
upon to justify – they may stand down at any time. A
Marshal’s baton can be offered back to them if they
are needed but the former Marshal has the right to
refuse without giving a reason.

