C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

F

I

V

GOVERNANCE

The Solomani Confederation is the youngest of the
great interstellar powers, founded a mere 234 years
ago. Even so, this means it has survived longer than
the legendary Terran Confederation from which it
takes its name and some of its forms of government.
Ten generations of citizens have lived and died under
its rule and its predecessor, the Autonomous Region,
lasted for additional centuries. For most Solomani its
institutions are just the way things work rather than
some authoritarian regime imposed upon them.

THE TRIUMVIRATE

Real power in the Solomani Confederation is divided
between three institutions: the Solomani Party, the
Solomani Confederation Armed Forces and Solomani
Security. The existence of each power bloc serves the
Solomani Cause but each has its own purposes and
goals. Each bloc is held in check by the others, in
theory preventing excesses or serious mismanagement.
The founders of the Solomani Movement believed they
were creating a new order that was superior to the
Imperium. They rely upon the dominant position of the
Party in civil organisations to prevent fragmentation.
The gloved fist of Solomani Security ensures the Party
maintains its own integrity and protects the interests
of Solomani society. The military is the shield of the
state and serves as a unifying force by recruiting
from multiple worlds, factions and social classes. In
simplistic terms, the Party rules, the Armed Forces
defend against physical threats, while SolSec protects
against ideological threats.

THE SOLOMANI PARTY

The Solomani Party is the binding organisation under
which political and government activity is conducted
within the Solomani Confederation. The Party, in various
forms, also exists on most worlds with a significant
ethnic Solomani population within 20 parsecs of the
Confederation border.
The Party originated as an interstellar coalition of
planetary and multi-world political organisations. They
coalesced in their opposition to changes in Imperial
policy and to ensure the promotion of a distinct

E

Solomani identity. The higher levels of the Solomani
Party provided the organisation with the structure needed
to present their demands to Empress Margaret and the
strength to negotiate the First Charter that created the
Solomani Autonomous Region. In the late 700s and
early 800s, the Party took on an increasingly hierarchical
structure and increased its influence in the governments
of member worlds, laying the foundation for the Second
Charter that established the Solomani Confederation.
Today the Solomani Party interprets the Solomani
Cause and unifies the Confederation through its
control of the machinery of government and the power
of patronage. In particular, the Party exerts direct
power over the Confederation’s interstellar government
through its control of the civilian ministry systems and
their bureaucracies.

Membership

Solomani Party membership is automatically open to all
Solomani humans. At present only Solomani humans
can join the Party, although some factions continue
to press for a more expansive definition of Solomani.
However automatic membership does not mean
automatic participation. A large fraction of Solomani,
typically about 95%, choose not to participate in
the Party either through apathy, disinterest or a
disagreement with the basic principles of the Party or
its local base.
Party members are expected to be active in attending
meetings, taking and passing courses in Solomani
history and philosophy and studying their genealogy.
On worlds where the Party is under threat, membership
could involve more militant activities such as
participating in demonstrations, strikes, street fighting,
revolutions or even terrorism.
Party membership is colloquially known as the ‘Blue
Card’ for the sky-blue cards that all new members have
been issued since the 824. In 1005–1040 membership
cards changed to black, symbolising the loss of Terra,
although in the recent years the Blue Card has been
reissued. Blue Cards show the date at which a member
joined the party and contain biometric and holographic
data, as well as current Party rank and position, if any.

59

