The lowest echelons of Party membership provide few
benefits beyond favourable treatment by prospective
employers, banks and the like. As members advance
in status and rank they gain privileged access to assets
owned and operated by the Party such as special
shops, vacation resorts or communication networks.
Starports offer private terminals for Party members
and their guests. These are not free but service or
quality are usually better than ordinary citizens can
enjoy at the same price. Party members go to the head
of the line when dealing with Solomani Confederation
bureaucracies such as the various Ministries.

Local Solomani Parties

The Party can exist in different forms on different
worlds. The most common is a hierarchy of committees
and ruling councils, with a new level of administration
at approximately every order of magnitude of members.
Thus, 10 party members form a cell; 10 cells form a
local committee; 10 local committees form a supervisory
committee and so on up. The head of the highestranking committee will be at the pinnacle of each
world’s Party.
Depending on the percentage of inhabitants who are
Party members and the exact organisation, the number
of rungs in the party hierarchy to whoever is in charge
at a planetary level will usually be up to three levels
less than a world’s Population code. For example, if one
in 100 were Party members, a typical figure on most
Solomani worlds with sizable populations, then a world
with Population 8 (100 million or more) would have
about six levels of Party hierarchy.

60

A planetary Party’s importance within the broader
Solomani Party depends on the number of members,
the world’s influence and the personal qualities of its
leadership. The chairman of a planetary party with 200
members on a TL7 world with a population of 20,000
has far less influence than a Party chairman who
represents 100 million Party members of a TL14 world
with a population of 10 billion people.

THE INTERSTELLAR

SOLOMANI PARTY

This term refers to the Solomani Party hierarchy above
the level of individual worlds. It consists of higherlevel permanent bodies and committees charged with
organising Party affairs at the subsector, sector and
Confederation levels. In the early years of the Solomani
Confederation, this interstellar Party was unified by the
goal of building strength to oppose the Imperium and
gaining full control of the Solomani Sphere. After the
defeat in the Solomani Rim War and its loss of Terra,
confidence in it was shaken.
Although formerly of great power and influence the
interstellar Party’s grip is now weaker. It has become
decentralised; real power in it is instead held by the
Party organisations operating at the level of planetary
and multi-world governments, which dominate local
affairs and choose representatives to select the
Secretariat and by the factions and High Council.
Nevertheless, the interstellar Party does wield
significant influence when it can agree on anything.
In particular, it dominates the Confederation’s
interstellar bureaucracy.

