Congresses

The major events of the Solomani Party are the
Congresses, conventions held to handle Party business,
such as debating policy and anointing or electing leaders.
Planetary Congresses are held each year on Solomani
worlds. Their character and importance depends on the
world’s government, population and Law Level. They
may be held in public or secret, in isolated high security
compounds, in public arenas or convention halls, in
members’ homes or even online networks. Some are
tightly orchestrated media events with everything
planned in advance; others involve spirited debate,
grassroots activism or conflicts between rival factions.
If the local party is divided into ideological factions
or there are rival power blocs, their struggle can range
from background deal making to intimidation tactics
using street demonstrations, Party militants or the
faction-in-power’s troops. If a convention seems to be
drifting away into radical ideas that no longer seem
compatible with the Solomani Cause, SolSec will take
action. This could be a local SolSec political section
officer politely advising the dozen people who make
up their tiny colony world’s political Congress to think
before they act. It could also be a series of midnight
arrests or covert black operations aimed at discrediting
or quietly eliminating radical leaders.
The General Congress is the main event of the
Solomani Party. Present-day General Congresses
are enormous conventions held on Home every four
years. These are intense affairs, with a million or
more visiting Party Members and countless partisans
or lobbyists from diverse factions. Security is tight
and decorum usually maintained, at least in public,
although some convention can turn into political
circuses if the Party is badly split. Delegates vote on
key issues based on the Party rank, size and power of
their local Party but this is done in secret so that the
final results give the appearance of consensus. The last
few days are endless rounds of public speeches and
policy papers.
The decisions made at a General Congress do not
directly affect world or Confederation government but
they have great influence. Which faction or politicians
give the official keynote speeches to the media or
whose name is on a policy paper are indications that
predict the way the Secretariat will vote and the
actions the High Council will pursue.

pave the way for a new colony or other world to
enter the Confederation, as it certifies that they are
loyally following the Solomani Cause. The latter
is a way of declaring a Party is no longer loyal
to the Solomani Cause. Since the Charter of the
Solomani Confederation requires that all worlds
follow the Solomani Cause, it is effectively a way to
excommunicate a planetary government. This is usually
done prior to the Secretariat reducing the world to
Protectorate status or the Secretary General calling for
intervention by the Confederation military.
The Standing Committee of the General Congress
of the Solomani Party consists of 100 or so senior
ranking Party members based at Home supported
by several thousand political staffers representing
major world parties. They serve as a permanent
liaison between interstellar and local parties and
coordinate the Party’s affairs with the operations of
the High Council. They also have the power to call an
Emergency Session of the General Congress if a crisis
requires the Party to work out a political response. It
would take about six months to assemble delegates
from across the Confederation.

Solomani Party Factions

The Solomani Party was once united behind their
support for the ideal of Solomani exceptionalism and
an autonomous state independent from the Imperium.
Having achieved this long ago, the various local and
interstellar party organisations have fragmented into
factions that stand for different interpretations of the
Solomani Cause. Factions are most obvious during
Party Congresses and in the Secretariat but also exist
within the High Council, among local parties and in
the bureaucracies.
Factions differ in interpretations of doctrinal issues.
Among these are the pace and direction of Solomani
expansion; balance of power between the Confederation
as a whole and its member governments; relations with
the Imperium or Aslan; tax policy; degree of support
for violent Solomani militants in the Imperium; the
rights of uplifted animals, mixed race Solomani and
even artificial intelligences. Factions tend to go by
the names of their leaders or popular nicknames such
as Manifest Destiny, Dolphin Embracers or Purists.
Factional strength is also regional, reflecting the local
interests of planetary Solomani Party organisations and
the worlds they represent.

The General Congress does have the significant
power to admit, suspend or expel a world’s Solomani
Party from its Congress. The former is used to

61

