The Solomani Interstellar 		
Development Corps

The Solomani Party supports dozens of nongovernmental
organisations (NGOs) with interstellar reach that serve to
promote the Solomani Cause. One example is the SIDC.
This Confederation-wide organisation, founded in 1021,
is dedicated to giving young Solomani citizens fresh out
of school the opportunity to perform developmental and
educational work among disadvantaged people, lowtechnology regressed worlds and aliens.
On primitive worlds and pocket empires on the Solomani
frontier, SIDC missions are the face of the Solomani
Party. Educational teams help spread Solomani culture
and technology. Where there is trouble, SIDC relief
teams distribute emergency supplies to non-Solomani
worlds suffering from poverty, plague, natural disasters
and war.
SIDC mission teams also work busily within the
Confederation itself, especially on newly settled frontier
worlds. They devote time and resources to helping
primitive indigenous aliens discover their place within
interstellar society. They teach them to understand
Anglic, use Solomani technology and perform useful
work within Solomani communities. SIDC also work
within the prindig communities to help them improve
their own infrastructure and approach the basic
standards of Solomani Confederation society.
The SIDC missions are full of earnest, well-scrubbed
Solomani youths bent on bringing civilisation
and culture to pretty much everyone and they do
occasionally get in over their heads. Incidents involving
SIDC youth being captured, murdered or otherwise
abused have resulted in intervention by Solomani Army
forces, followed by an increased presence to protect
Solomani citizens.

Other Party NGOs

Party Academy for Public Administration (PAPA): This is
a Confederation-wide organisation of universities for
training Party bureaucrats and theorists.
Solomani Athletic Committee: Dedicated to the perfection
of pure Solomani athletes who excel in interstellar
competition and promoting Party solidarity through sport.
Terran Veterans Association: A patriotic society open to
descendants of soldiers who fought in the Battle of Terra.

62

STRUCTURE OF THE

CONFEDERATION

The Solomani Confederation inherited the Imperial
system of governance when it seceded but this has
evolved over time. Rather than considering each world
to be self-governing, the Confederation recognises local
governments that may rule more than one star system.
In some cases multiple states in the same star system
or even on the same world are members but for the most
part member governments have jurisdiction over at least
one star system.
Each member government has representatives at the
Confederation level, with a number of votes based upon
the population, economic importance and technological
level of the government’s territory. Additional weightings
are applied in some cases for worlds in strategic
locations or as a reward for favourable actions. A
government may have its votes devalued as punishment
for disloyalty, usually on a temporary basis or until
certain conditions have been met.
This system recognises the existence of alliances and
multi-world states forming power blocs within the
Confederation as a whole. Whilst solving some problems
the system does create others, notably the wielding of
power by multi-world governments. However, a oneworld-one-vote system would suffer from the same
issue, only due to behind the scenes influence. The
Confederation system is actually more transparent,
although it does not prevent bias being applied by the
most powerful member governments.
Most star systems are the territory of a government
located within the system or close by. Underdeveloped
systems and some strategic worlds are Confederation
territory, run by a governor who may be based there or at a
nearby world. In the case of multiple governments in the
system, each has its own sovereign territory, with either a
shared jurisdiction over the rest of the system or a system
governor in place to handle wider affairs on behalf of the
Confederation. The standard response to any jurisdiction
question is to appoint a governor, give them a small staff
and let them deal with the problem.
Member governments have wide latitude in terms of laws
and policies but are required to remain in alignment
with overall Confederation policy. There is also a body of
Confederation Law that applies everywhere and trumps
local legislation if required. Typically the Confederation
will just let member governments deal with matters
in their own territory, which sometimes results in
perpetrators not being tried for actions illegal throughout
the Confederation but not prohibited in the locality
they were committed. In this case the individual would

