normally be left alone unless the matter came to the
attention of the Confederation as a whole. This would
happen if the perpetrator came to the attention of the
Confederation authorities or the incident was of sufficient
note to attract the attention of the Ministry of Justice.
One consequence of this situation is that occasionally
someone will commit a ‘Confederation-level’ crime
such as multiple murders and not be prosecuted
for some reason; perhaps due to influence with the
local government. If the matter does not come to the
attention of the Ministry of Justice the perpetrator might
well get away with it. If they were to move to a different
jurisdiction and information on the matter was available,
an arrest might be made by the authorities in the new
area despite them not having jurisdiction over the place
where the crime was committed. The normal course of
action would be to call in the Ministry of Justice but any
member government can, in theory at least, prosecute a
Confederation-level offence.
All arms and branches of the Confederation’s services
and ministries have authority in the territory of member
governments. There are protocols and courtesies in
place but a Confederation Navy warship has rights of
navigation and jurisdiction to enforce the law everywhere
except designated ‘places of national security’ such as
the bases of the local government’s space forces. Access
to such areas can be requested but a request can be
legally denied. Otherwise, ships of the Confederation
Navy can go where they please.
Similar considerations apply to law enforcement
agencies. Confederation-wide agencies are bound by
similar rules to domestic ones about respecting the
property of individuals but for routine matters there is a
‘shall grant’ clause governing operations in the territory
of member governments. That is, the agency is required
in most cases to request permission to operate and to
give information on the nature of its operations, in the
territory of a local government. The government ‘shall
grant’ such permission as a matter of course. This
translates to a protocol whereby local agencies cannot
object if the Ministry of Justice sends a task force to
take over their operations but the ministry is required to
formally ask permission and explain why it is acting.
Confederation-wide agencies and services can only
enforce the Confederation’s laws. They have no
jurisdiction over local laws governing legal actions in
the Confederation as a whole. During joint operations
the high-level agencies are bound by a ‘may grant’ rule,
which states that local agencies can request assistance
in making arrests or handling prosecutions for local
crimes and the high-level agency ‘shall grant’ such a
request, if deemed appropriate.

This approach applies to most interactions between
the Confederation and its member governments. Duties
to the Confederation are typically absolute, whilst
the Confederation as a whole may or may not assist
a member government depending on circumstances.
In practice, the obligations in both directions are well
established and even if the Confederation does not
have to take a requested action, custom often dictates
that it should.
This is perhaps the most important facet of
Confederation governance; those who govern must
be worthy of the trust placed in them. Indeed, the
Confederation came into being because the Imperial
government no longer served the best interests of the
Solomani people. To repeat that failure would be a
betrayal of the principles upon which the Confederation
is founded.

LOCAL

GOVERNMENTS

Local governments are guaranteed almost complete
autonomy, although they must remain within certain
limits set by the Charter of Confederation. This requires
them to support the Solomani Cause, pay taxes and
respect the sovereignty of Confederation levels of
government over interstellar matters. The Charter of the
Solomani Confederation requires world governments be
approved by the Party and espouse the Solomani Cause
but the government itself will usually be separate from
the Party system.
Local governments in the Confederation can exist in
a variety of forms, from corporate states to religious
dictatorships, as long as all recognise the primacy
of the Solomani Party. On worlds in which the entire
population are Solomani, every adult may be a Party
member and the world is therefore a fully participatory
democracy. On other worlds, the Party could be an
oligarchy that controls politics through doling out
patronage, a bureaucracy whose senior service posts
are controlled by Party leaders or even a theocracy
whose religion incorporates the ‘holy’ Solomani Cause
into its dogma.
On worlds where Party influence is strong, positions
in the Party hierarchy correspond directly to parallel
positions in government. On such a world the planetary
president or dictator may be leader of the Party; the
chairman of every city’s Solomani Party is also its
mayor and the Solomani Party educational committee
runs the local school and picks its teachers. In a
nominal representative democracy, for example, the
Party’s influence may be more subtle, perhaps existing
as network of patronage and privilege that vets all

63

