candidates for office and controls the civil service and
big-money political donors. All candidates stand for the
Solomani Cause; elections would turn on their support
of other issues or their personal character.

CONFEDERATION

GOVERNMENT

The interstellar governing body of the Solomani
Confederation is the Secretariat, named after the
government of the Terran Confederation and before
that, the executive body of the United Nations. It
consists of delegates who represent the member
governments of the Confederation. There are currently
765 seated delegates, one representing each member
government within the Confederation. This number
can change every decade with redistricting based on
census results and economic performance.
Delegates to the Secretariat are given one or more
votes, depending on a formula based on their world’s
government's contribution to the Confederation as
a whole. Economic output, technological level and
population size are the main factors but the final
value is heavily influenced by strategic considerations
and, in some cases, historical events. Some member
governments have extra votes to commemorate a great
sacrifice or victory. These are cast with great ceremony
after the general vote, allowing a government to
commemorate its heroic actions or contribution to
the Solomani Cause every time a matter is voted on.
Occasionally a delegate will cast the general vote but
withhold the additional ones, usually as an indication
of protest or reservations about a course of action. It
is customary in such situations to declare that ‘we see
the necessity of this measure but our heroes and our
forefathers do not approve’.
Low population, low-technology and economically
insignificant worlds often fail to meet the threshold
to merit a delegate. In many cases these worlds are
not represented, although where several are located
in the same region they may be collectively assigned
a delegate. Some entire subsectors on the rimward
border are represented in this manner.
The choice of who will serve as a delegate is left up to
the member government. It could be the head of that
government or someone they appoint to the position.
The Solomani Parties of each world generally control
that world’s government, so the membership of each
world’s Party also determines who will represent it.
Where there is a multi-world district or a balkanised
world, that district or world’s member governments
vote to choose who the delegate will be. The number
of votes each can cast in this election is determined
by their relative economic contribution.

64

Powers of the Secretariat

The Secretariat exists to debate and vote on resolutions
affecting the Confederation as a whole. Resolutions cover
treaties, amendments to the fundamental law supporting
the Charter, confirmation of senior officials, taxation levels
and allocation of budgets between the various government
ministries. Measures are usually carried by majority vote.
The secretariat can also create committees to investigate
issues of Confederation-wide importance and summon
witnesses to testify before it. It can also vote to summon
a member of the High Council to give testimony regarding
their ministry or service they control.
The Secretariat’s most important responsibility is to
vote to elect or confirm in office the Secretary General
of the Solomani Confederation. The Confederation
Charter is required to elect or confirm every four
years, with elections usually held about a month after
the Solomani Party’s general congress. The Secretariat
can also remove a Secretary General or demand the
resignation of a member of the High Council but this
is difficult, requiring a 75% vote of no confidence.
The High Council uses most of the budget to fund
various agencies but typically some 5–15% is left for
discretionary funding. This gives the Secretariat the
ability to fund projects of ‘interstellar interest’ that
will ‘further the Solomani Cause’ such as building
starports named after local Solomani politicians or
war heroes.
The Secretariat has limited powers over the internal
affairs of worlds but via two-thirds majority can declare
a member government illegitimate should it ‘no longer
support the ideals of the Solomani Cause’ and expel it.
This is normally only done punitively if the Solomani
Party’s General Congress has revoked the credential of
that world’s Party, although it would also be done if a
world rebelled against the Confederation.
The Secretariat has various standing committees to
discuss specific areas of policy in private chambers.
They have no power but significant influence with the
ministries. Indeed, influence is often more important
than power. The internal politics of the Confederation
can be complex, with many cross-cutting agendas. It
is not always clear who controls the people who wield
the power or if they are sufficiently free of external
influences to be able to make their own decisions.

Secretary General

The Secretariat is presided over by the Secretary
General, who is elected by its membership. The
Secretary General is the chief source of executive
power in the Solomani Confederation government
and commander in chief of the military. He is usually

