also chairman of the High Council. His Office of the
Secretary General has discretionary power over 20%
of the Confederation budget.
A candidate for Secretary General must be a current
or former member of the Solomani supreme executive,
the High Council. He must be nominated by any
two delegates of the Secretariat. This is a formality,
although a good nomination speech will occasionally
sway wavering delegates. If there is more than one
candidate, voting proceeds in multiple rounds, with
the weakest candidates being eliminated until the
new Secretary General is elected by a majority.
The elected Secretary General has traditionally been
the most influential member of the High Council or
a consensus choice of different factions. Often, the
High Council will come up with a candidate that they
can all support, then influence the Secretariat to
select that individual, although sometimes a popular
choice will be rammed through instead.

The High Council and the Ministries

Executive power in the Solomani government is
exercised through the High Council, a supreme
policy-making body ordinarily chaired by the Secretary
General. The High Council decides how to spend the
budgets voted to the various ministries. It meets to
coordinate ministerial policy.
The High Council normally follows the direction
of the Secretary General and reaches decisions by
consensus but may vote where this is impossible. If
a minister or the Secretary General loses a vote they
must either resign or switch their vote to follow the
majority. Traditionally, the Secretary General casts
their votes last and thus can always see where the
wind is blowing.
The High Council has existed in various forms since
the founding of the Confederation. The current
streamlined organisation was established just after
the Solomani Rim War. It has 11 seats and its
debates are held in closed chambers. The Secretary
General traditionally holds two seats, Chairman and
Secretary General, giving him two votes. However, this
is not required and occasionally the Chairman is a
different individual. Before the Solomani Rim War the
chairman was often the head of Terra’s Solomani Party.
In theory anyone with requisite experience can
be appointed to the High Council. In practice the
nominations for Ministries invariably go to those
high-ranking members of the Solomani Party
hierarchy who hold Party positions associated with
these bureaucracies.

The power of the High Council rests in the fact
that its membership holds all ministerial positions
within the Confederation Government and thus
appoints and controls the bureaucracy. In addition,
some High Council members also hold powerful
positions as leaders or representatives of particular
member governments. For example, Ryoko Skinner
was Solomani Party sector supervisor for Alpha
Crucis. She was also on the board of directors of
Macrogenesis, a Solomani Party-owned genetic
engineering corporation. This positioned her at the
upper levels of Party power and she was a prominent
speaker on various bio-tech related committees at
the last General Congress. With her nomination to the
High Council, she filled the vacant spot as Minister
for Genetics.
The High Council meets once a month and the
standing committee meets weekly. The agenda for
the meetings is controlled by the Secretary General.
New members of the High Council must be nominated
by the Secretary General and be confirmed by High
Council vote. However, High Council members do
not serve at the pleasure of the Secretary General;
the Secretary General cannot ask a member to resign
and they will continue to serve after the term ends.
Thus, High Council members serve indefinitely unless
they are dismissed by the Secretariat, die in office
or opt to retire. This makes them a self-perpetuating
oligarchy that is occasionally subject to replacement.
Since much real power exists within the High
Council, elections for General Secretary have far
greater significance during periods when a High
Council member’s seat is either vacant or one or more
members seem likely to retire or die in office.
In 1105 the High Council had the following seats:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Chairman of the High Council and Secretary
General – Osmond Salazar
Grand Admiral of the Solomani Confederation
Navy – Elijah Drummond
General of the Solomani Confederation Army – Ivy
Bergman
Minister of Economics – Regina Rogachova
Minister of Information – Feng Banerjee
Minister of Foreign and Colonial Affairs – Heidi
Lopez
Minister of Genetics – Ryoko Skinner
Minister of Justice – Khalid O’Sullivan
Minister of Science and Technology – Jordan Azazi
SolSec Coordinator – Juliet Chen

65

