The Ministries

The Ministries are powerful administrative
organisations, the Confederation’s equivalent of the
Imperial bureaucracy. The ministries exist to fulfil
functions mandated in the Confederation Charter,
such as maintaining a treasury, regulating interstellar
commerce or promoting the Solomani Cause.
Ministry of the Economy: This manages the Solomani
Treasury and runs the Solomani Bank. It sets
monetary policy, interest rates and exchange rates
between member worlds and against other economies.
It writes regulations that affect interstellar commerce
and starship operation. Its analysts determine the
economic performance of Confederation worlds and
develop the formula that determines what taxes they
pay and how many votes their delegates receive in the
Secretariat.
Ministry of Foreign and Colonial Affairs: This ministry
manages relations with foreign governments through
the professional Solomani Diplomatic Corps and its
staff of foreign embassies and numerous translators,
foreign trade specialists, linguists and xenologists. Its
small Office of Diplomatic Intelligence uses agents
to gather information on foreign governments without
it being filtered through SolSec. Also under Foreign
Affairs is the Colonial Office that provides businesses
and would-be settlers with assistance in establishing
or emigrating to new Solomani colonies and manages
their smooth transition from protectorates into
Solomani member states. Its Prindig Bureau looks
after the affairs of primitive indigenous races and
assists their integration into the Confederation.
Ministry of Genetics: The fundamental importance of
race in the Solomani Cause explains the existence
of this ministry. The ministry’s primary role is to
make genetic testing available throughout the
Confederation. Specialists in the Ministry’s High
Dolphin Bureau helps manage Confederation relations
with uplifted Dolphins and the small number of
other uplifted cetaceans. The Uplifted Animal Office
does the same, with somewhat less sensitivity, for
uplifted Apes, enhanced dogs and similar cases.
The Ecological Oversight Office is also in charge of
regulating large-scale ecological engineering projects
such as seeding worlds with terrestrial life forms,
although this is normally done in cooperation with
planetary governments and corporate interests.

66

Ministry of Justice: This ministry administers the
Solomani high court system that handles interstellar
lawsuits and crimes, negotiates extradition between
worlds and operates the court system in Confederation
protectorates such as frontier colonies. The Solomani
Ministry of Justice was derived from its Imperial
counterpart and operates in a broadly similar fashion.
It has no mandate to deal with issues involving
political crimes or the military; that jurisdiction is left
to SolSec. The staff is composed of Solomani Party
personnel recruited from backgrounds in local lawmaking and law enforcement.
Ministry of Justice marshals provide close protection
bodyguards for the interstellar leadership of the
government, Solomani Party and for SolSec offices
and personnel. They also investigate interstellar
terrorist threats to the Solomani Confederation,
often in coordination with SolSec or planetary
police. They coordinate with the navy and local law
enforcement bodies to handle interstellar crimes
such as human trafficking, arms smuggling or
piracy. Their elite Special Police protect important
Confederation government facilities and administer
the Confederation’s prison planets.
Ministry of Information: This administers tax credits
and grants that promote information and educational
initiatives deemed important to the Confederation,
whether that is graduating more students with
advanced degrees in jumpspace physics or ensuring
school children take classes in Solomani History and
Philosophy. It engages in a wide range of activities
such as promoting Confederation tourism, countering
anti-Solomani propaganda, funding worthy proSolomani cultural events and even running the Office
of Solomani Languages, which works to support
endangered archaic Terran languages while ensuring
that Anglic be purged of improper influences such as
Vilani loan-words.
Ministry of Science and Technology: This ministry deals
with issues such as interstellar patent protection but
it also provides Confederation funding to scientific
research and experimental projects. The ministry
tends to prefer spending on ‘big science’ prestige
projects that vividly demonstrate Solomani prowess.
These include programmes such as fast planetary
terraforming, launching long range interstellar
exploration missions into the next galactic arm,
creating a planet-encircling particle accelerator for
high-energy physics research or building the biggest
meson gun ever made. The Ministry runs multiple
state-funded research stations usually in partnership
with academia or private enterprise.

