Confederation Public Holidays

Solomani Party and Confederation government offices close on these holidays, with the exception of
essential services like SolSec, as do most world government agencies and many private businesses.
Secretariat funds are liberally used to ensure holidays are memorable events that emphasise the Solomani
Cause and Solomani heritage.
New Year’s Day (Jan 1): An official holiday celebrating the start of the Terran year.
Liberation Day (Jan 21): Celebrates the date of the founding of the Solomani Confederation. The Secretary
General gives a speech on the State of the Confederation.
Leap Day (Feb 29): Commemorates the Terran invention of the jump drive and celebrates scientific achievements
by people of Solomani origin. The prestigious Ministerial Prize for Scientific Excellence is awarded at Home.
Leap Day is celebrated every four years.
Public Vigilance Day (March 15): SolSec officers speak at schools to emphasise the responsibility of the citizenry
to remain alert to threats, the social problems caused by spreading rumours and false information and the
importance of the monitor programme.
Festival of Earth (April 4): Celebrates the biodiversity of Terran life. It is popular with local merchants. Cities are
decorated with imported or simulated Terran floral displays. There may be performances by uplifted Dolphins
and parades led by uplifted Apes and other Terran animals or people dressed like them. On some worlds it is
‘the Festival of Flowers’ and is a major romantic holiday and favourite time to propose marriage.
Navy Day (June 5): Honours the Confederation Navy, the Navy Home Forces and the Marines. Fleet reviews
and mock battles are held in the skies of major worlds, with an especially impressive performance at Home.
The Confederation Navy is tasked with making one or more warships available for public visits at every major
starport in the Confederation and Navy personnel may participate in parades in major cities.
Ivan Wolfe’s Birthday (August 20): Local holiday on Home and some other worlds.
Solomani Day (first Monday in September): A day for celebrating pride in the Solomani race and the
Solomani Cause. It is now mainly a family vacation date, although various Party events are often scheduled
for the faithful. Honours the creation of the Solomani Party at the first all-Party Congress on Terra. On
worlds with mixed populations, Party militants will sometimes march on parades through mixed-race or
non-Solomani neighbourhoods.
Terran Heritage Week (last week in October): A celebration of ethnic pride in all things Terran, with parades
of people dressing in ethnic costumes and eating traditional Terran food. At the end of the week, Solomani
children dress in traditional Terran costumes and go door-to-door distributing Party buttons or flags and
receiving treats in return.
Remembrance Day (November 9): The day Terra surrendered to the Imperium. It honours the sacrifice of
Solomani Rim War veterans, especially the Army and remembers the continued oppression of Solomani people
in the occupied systems. Flags are flown at half-mast and Party and government officials promise the occupied
systems will eventually be freed.
Bellerophon (last week in December): A week of giving presents to friends, children and the less fortunate, and
for being grateful for one’s own accomplishments. Honours a Terran Mercantile Consortium starship of the
same name whose possibly apocryphal voyage distributed Terran goods, including toys, to isolated colony
worlds during the Long Night. It is also a time of Solomani Party charity drives. Since the Solomani Rim
War, it has often been preceded with a week of fasting to symbolise the rationing worlds experienced
during the War. This honours the civilian Merchant Marine and free traders who risked ships and lives
to bring supplies to isolated systems despite Imperial commerce raiders. Those in port get free drinks at
startowns across the Confederation.
Religions and world governments also celebrate additional own holidays, which often overlap or coincide with
those celebrated Confederation-wide.

67

