Multi-World Alliances

The polities that joined the Confederation included
several multi-world alliances, a few of them dating
back to pre-Imperial times, as well as scattered
human pocket empires on the rimward and trailing
frontier. Some of these states agreed or were induced
to join the Confederation as individual worlds but
even these continue to maintain some of their old
relationships, often formalised through reciprocal free
trade pacts or mutual assistance treaties between
their respective governments and Home Forces.
Formal or informal multi-world alliances wield
significant economic and political power in some
subsectors. Along with the various ideological Party
factions they also control blocs of votes in the
Secretariat. Inevitably this influence is used to gain
advantage over economic rivals or to push for policies
that benefit the faction to the detriment of others.
Centrist elements in the Confederation fear these
alliances could end up splintering the Confederation
if they use force to threaten non-aligned neighbours.
SolSec keeps a close eye on such internal
associations, balancing the risks that intervention
could destabilise important worlds with the danger
that regional rivalries and trade wars could escalate
into a conflict that threatens the internal peace and
cohesion of the Confederation itself. Instability on or
near the Imperial or Aslan borders could also attract
foreign intervention.
For example, the Near Boötes League in the Solomani
Rim consists of wealthy neighbouring star systems
whose political, economic and cultural ties predate
the founding of the Confederation. The interest the
Boötes cluster worlds have in cross-border trade
with the Imperium has helped foster a post-war
spirit of détente. However, relations have not always
been good within the league. Internal disputes
resulted in the Boötes Trade War, which pitted the
powerful worlds of the region against one another and
disrupted the economy of the surrounding region.
Conditions have not entirely returned to normal.

Interstellar Politics Within the
Confederation

The Confederation is far more factionalised than the
Imperium. Control over matters of interstellar interest
such as foreign policy, trade, and the employment
of military power flow from the bottom up. Every
member government has its own say in these matters,
based on the number of votes it can bring to the
Secretariat. These governments, controlled by their
local Parties, vote in their own economic and political
interests, often in coalition with other allied worlds or
representatives from similar factions.

68

This bottom-up approach to politics is radically
different from that of the Imperium, where authority
on matters of interstellar concern flows from the
top down, from the emperor to the nobility and
where there is a clear division between the rules
of planets and those of space. The importance of
member governments in determining policy is what
enables Confederation citizens to boast that their
own institutions offer greater freedom than those
of the Imperium. Anyone who has witnessed the
sometimes raucous meetings of all 700+ delegates of
the Secretariat can attest to the vibrancy of Solomani
interstellar politics.
Numerous informal caucuses and alliances exist within
the Secretariat, representing groupings of member
governments, the interests of the Ministries and the
military and the dozens of philosophical factions of
the Solomani Party itself. The stabilising factor that
keeps the entire system from falling into disarray is the
Solomani Party. The tools it employs are the Solomani
Armed Forces and Solomani Security.

