C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

I

X

CONFEDERATION ARMED FORCES
The Solomani Confederation maintains military forces
as instruments of policy, to defend against attacks by its
neighbours and to ensure internal stability. Unlike those
of the Imperium, Confederation central military forces
are also used in a peace-enforcement role and their
commanders have a direct seat in political decisionmaking as voting members of its High Council.
The forces deployable by the Confederation consist
of three major groupings. The Confederation Armed
Forces, subdivided into the Confederation Navy and
the Confederation Army, are raised and commanded by
the Confederation as a whole. Home Forces are raised
and supported by member governments. Attached
Forces is a catch-all term covering all other military and
supporting formations, of whatever source. There is a
considerable amount of mobility between these three
groupings, usually on a temporary basis.
It is common for Confederation Military forces to
operate in conjunction with Attached Forces. For
example, a merchant shipping line might provide
vessels to a Confederation task force as additional
supply assets. These would be considered ‘attached
forces’ rather than being a formal part of the task force.
Likewise, mercenaries operating in conjunction with
Confederation Army units would be Attached Forces –
only units raised, trained, equipped and commanded
by the Confederation as a whole are considered to be
part of the Confederation Military. This distinction is
sometimes useful in avoiding responsibility for a fiasco
but more commonly it is an administrative function;
Confederation forces will always meet certain standards,
Attached forces may or may not.
In some cases elements of the Confederation Armed
Forces may be placed under the hand of a local
Home Forces commander. Such units can be returned
to Confederation command at any time but in the
meantime they are inserted into the local chain of
command and considered to be part of the Home
Forces. The reverse is not true; when Home Forces
units are assigned to Confederation command they are
considered to be Attached Forces for the duration of the
assignment unless they meet certain specific criteria
and are formally seconded to the Confederation military.

POLITICAL OFFICERS

AND MONITORS

All formations of the Confederation Armed Forces
include political personnel. These include covert
monitors, SolSec agents inserted into the service’s
training programme. Some follow a highly successful
career – warship captains and even admirals have
declared upon retirement that they were in fact covert
monitors – but most serve at a junior level for a few
years before transferring to an overt role. In some cases
this means activation to prevent a mutiny or remove a
politically suspect crewmember. More commonly the
operative serves quietly for a few years then moves on to
a more open role.
Those personnel who are openly SolSec monitors remain
in their parent career and are treated exactly like any
other member of that service, except for one detail –
they wear a different hat. Instead of the black navy cap
or the green army one, a monitor wears a mid-grey cap
with normal uniform for their service. Some monitors are
bullies or using the role to further their career ambitions
but most are earnest guardians of the service’s loyalty.
The difference between a covert and an open monitor
is significant; covert monitors by definition conceal
their allegiance and pretend to be ordinary members of
the service. Open monitors are not SolSec operatives;
they are members of their parent service who report to
SolSec and provide additional functions. A monitor is
expected to have a good grasp of political reality and
can advise comrades or superiors on moral dilemmas
or the likely implications of a course of action. It is
possible to become a monitor by taking a short Political
Awareness Course during training, with advanced
education available later in the monitor’s career. A
monitor will – in theory at least – follow a normal career
path for their service and might even rise to command a
military unit or warship.
Small units such as corvettes and infantry companies
have no Political Officer assigned. Their commanders
must rely on their monitors for political advice – which
can mean a 19-year-old who has just completed a
six-week course is suddenly asked about the political

69

