implications of a given action. Commanders of such
vessels and units are under no obligation to consult
their monitors about any decision, although they
know their actions will be reported upon. Those who
command larger formations and ships will be assigned
a Political Officer.
Political Officers serve as the ‘second captain’ of
a warship or the ‘second commander’ of an army
unit. Their role is to prevent the commanding officer
from taking ‘unwise’ decisions that might harm the
Confederation as a whole. The Political Officer is
subordinate to the commanding officer in the chain
of command but has the right to veto any order. This
can create an awkward situation but when it works,
the system is highly effective. The captain of a warship
focuses on strategic decisions and commanding their
ship, whilst the Political Officer offers advice on wider
implications of any action.
Political Officers occupy an odd status in the
Confederation’s military. They are part of the naval
or military chain of command but are part of SolSec.
The only way to become a Political Officer is to follow
a successful career in the service then transfer to
SolSec. This is termed ‘going sideways’ and is often
accompanied by a promotion. This provides a route for
advancement to naval or army officers whose careers
have stalled and is often used by those who are not
competent in their current role.
SolSec is careful about who it accepts but those who
slip through the cracks contribute to a bad reputation
for Political Officers in general. Overall, Political
Officers are usually former covert or open monitors,
or successful officers who genuinely want to take on
a different role. Some are ambitious and wanted the
extra promotion, which does not necessarily make them
bad Political Officers.
Service as a Political Officer is a good route into
the higher echelons of SolSec but it cannot lead to
command of a warship or military unit. The armed
services are willing to accept political oversight and
the loss of some of their personnel to SolSec but they
are not willing to place their ships and battalions
under the command of a different service. This means
that an overt monitor cannot ever attain starship
command and once a covert monitor is revealed
they must transfer to SolSec. Being a monitor does
sometimes result in quicker promotion at the low and
mid-levels but it is a choice that leads to SolSec, not
high naval or military rank.

70

SERVICE UNIFORMS

The formal uniforms of the army, navy, marines – and
also SolSec – are quite similar in general cut and style.
The basic concept is a tunic and trousers, although
with variations for different army regiments. ‘Highland’
regiments of the army may wear a kilt rather than
trousers, although in this context ‘Highland’ is more
a matter of regimental tradition than origins in any
particular terrain. Similarly, some army formations
are designated as ‘rifle’ rather than ‘infantry’ units.
This indicates a tradition of sharpshooting and
marksmanship. These units, along with armoured
formations, wear a heavily frogged dolman jacket rather
than the plainer tunic of the infantry. All units have a
splendid amount of braid, of course.
The army wears green, as is traditional, whilst Marine
formal uniform is a close variant of the Army version
but in dark blue. Naval personnel wear black with a
department-coloured stripe down the trouser seam.
Naval tunics are a little longer than ground personnel
wear but of a similar design. Whereas army uniform has
a variety of significant differences based on unit type,
Confederation Naval uniform has only slight differences
between the commands. To an experienced observer,
it is easy to distinguish someone serving with Fleet
Operations Command from a colleague in Survey and
Exploration Command. An outsider might not be able to
see a difference.
In general, Home Forces follow Confederation practice
with small variations but some may use a completely
different mode of dress. SolSec formal uniforms are
dark grey, cut like the army uniform for most personnel
but with a ‘space service’ tunic for those serving in a
primarily spaceborne role. All services wear the same
hat, a typical peaked cap. It is in the branch colour to
match the uniform, with one exception. Overt SolSec
monitors and Political Officers attached to military units
wear the uniform of their unit – navy, army or marines –
with a grey cap.

THE CONFEDERATION

NAVY

The navy is the senior service of the Solomani
Confederation. Its mission is to use interstellar warships
to project military power in the service of the Solomani
Cause. The navy defends Solomani citizens, territory and
trade. It deters threats to the Solomani Confederation’s
peace and prosperity. It is also ordered to prepare to
be ready to take the offensive in a new war against the
Imperium should its political masters ever determine
that a credible strategic opportunity exists to break the
armistice and liberate Terra.

