The Confederation Navy is, to some extent, the prodigal
son of the Imperial Navy. It inherited its first ships,
commanders and traditions from Imperial formations
transferred to the Solomani Autonomous District. Some
of its first flag officers had served in the Imperial Navy
before the formation of the Confederation. A few hundred
years have led to differences in approach but both navies
share many common traditions, ranks and practices.
Perhaps the major distinction is that the Solomani
Navy also performs scouting, message transmission and
survey functions that in the Imperium are the preserve
of the Scout Service. Dedicated courier vessels are used
for official communications and will often carry civilian
messages as well. Naval survey ships maintain up-todate maps of star systems within and a little beyond the
Confederation’s borders. Exploration is undertaken by
specialist vessels, many of which are obsolete warships
that have been adapted and refitted.
Confederation Navy officers are aware that at times
in their career they may be explorers or diplomats as
well as warriors. To this end, the navy will train some
of its officers in scientific fields such as xenology

or planetology. Not only does this allow it to better
perform exploration functions but these specialists
will also provide militarily useful information. Naval
xenologists can explain how an alien enemy thinks,
planetologists can help locate and target buried
fortifications, and so on
The navy has jurisdiction over not only its own courier
network but also over civilian and corporate assets
carrying information between worlds. Communications
into or out of a given system can be suspended at the
command of a senior naval officer. Typically the navy
wields this message interdiction capability as means of
concealing fleet movements from foreign agents or, at the
direction of the Secretary General, punishing misbehaving
worlds. Interrupting a system or alliance’s courier service
can cause great financial harm without the need for
overt intervention or physical blockade and can deny
information to potential rebels. SolSec envies the navy’s
direct control of the courier system; negotiations between
the two organisations can sometimes hinge on the navy’s
willingness to give SolSec access. SolSec does not always
need to ask; it tries to have trusted open and sleeper
agents at key facilities.

71

