Unlike the Imperial Navy, the Confederation Navy
does not maintain sector and subsector fleets.
In peacetime its forces are deployed to regional
commands, which are typically larger than a
subsector but smaller than a sector, and strategic
reserves. Deployments are based on astrographical
reality rather than neat subsector boundaries.
Some regional commands are very small, typically
where an astrographical choke point or traditional
trouble spot requires close focus. However, where a
strategic system requires heavy defence, for example
somewhere close to the Imperial border, it is more
common to award the local Home Forces a subsidy to
provide heavy defence and assign some fleet elements
to reinforce the area when needed.
In wartime, combat fleets are formed from the
regional forces and strategic reserve, and are
supported by the regional bases. Where possible the
assets assigned to a force are tailored to the needs
of its expected operational area but in practice less
important regions get whatever is left over when the
primary deployments are completed.
Within the Confederation Navy there are many
subdivisions, most of which exist at both the strategic
and local level. Personnel and vessels can, for the
most part, move from one command group to another
although certain vessel types are almost never
associated with some of these missions.

Fleet Operations Command (FOC)

Fleet Operations Command is by far the largest and
most important of the command groups. Often just
referred to as ‘fleet’ or ‘fleet ops’, Fleet Operations
Command is responsible for the activities of the
‘fighting navy’ and its immediate supports. It controls
almost all the capital ships and cruisers of the
Confederation Navy along with the best examples
of all the other vessel types. Fleet Ops is mostly
concerned with large-scale operations such as defence
of the Confederation from invasion but will sometimes
detach assets to deal with a local problem.

Internal Security Command (ISC)

Internal Security Command is responsible for patrol
operations and protection of commerce as well as
providing any assistance the member governments
may need. It primarily operates multirole vessels or
patrol ships of relatively low capability, optimised for
long deployments. ISC does have a few older capital
ships and cruisers at its disposal, which are often
posted as guardships at critical points.

72

Support Operations Command (SOC)

Support Operations Command is the supply and
logistics arm of the Confederation Navy and also
provides a number of other functions. Many of its
assets are tankers, transports and supply ships, with
a modest number of escort vessels of up to cruiser
size. SOC also operates the flotillas of couriers that
keep official information flowing between the member
worlds of the Confederation.

Survey and Exploration Command (SEC)

Survey and Exploration Command is responsible for
internal chart updates and long-range exploration.
Many of its specialist personnel come from the
Associate and Consultancy Programme, which
provides basic naval training to civilian personnel who
may serve aboard an exploration ship. SEC is typically
equipped with either refitted obsolete warships or
specialist exploration vessels.

Base and Reserve Command (BRC)

Base and Reserve Command operates and supports
bases throughout the Confederation. Most bases have
their own small force of transports and supply ships
as well as a security element that is typically made
up of non-jump-capable craft. BRC also administers
the navy’s reserve forces. Much of these are made
up of reservists who have retired in recent years or
receive assistance with funding for education in
return for a period in the naval reserves but there are
also active ships and personnel. Typically these are on
secondment to other forces or organisations – member
governments, client states or Home Forces – but can
be recalled at need.

Administration and Training Command
(ATC)

Administration and Training Command is responsible
for procurement, planning and recruitment throughout
the Confederation. Its remit also covers strategic
planning and naval intelligence, which is a semiautonomous body embedded within ATC. When
necessary, naval intelligence personnel blend into
the mass of staff officers, administrators and oddjob-handlers needed to keep the Confederation Navy
running. ATC also keeps track of movements between
the fleet and the Home Forces, and of Attached
Forces assigned to the fleet. It is an open secret
that many of its liaison personnel are actually naval
intelligence operatives.

