NAVAL DOCTRINE AND

DEPLOYMENTS

As with the structure of the Confederation Navy, its
doctrine has diverged from that of the Imperium in the
years since secession. Design philosophy and tactics
are geared towards enabling the fleet to perform feats
of arms rather than grinding an enemy down in a war
of attrition. Thus primary fleet assets are designed to
move fast and hit hard but many are relatively lightly
protected. The Confederation cannot hope to defeat
the Imperium in a slugging match but if the fleet can
do enough damage – and threaten to do more – the
Imperials may be forced to negotiate a treaty before
their superior weight of metal can make itself felt.
This strategy came close to working during the
Solomani Rim War and has been refined since. In an
all-out war with the Imperium, heavy strike forces will
advance boldly and strike at targets of strategic and
political importance. Lighter raiding forces will spread
out along the lines of advance and cause maximum
destruction. As the enemy responds, the primary
forces will concentrate against each formation in
turn whilst hampering enemy mobility by striking at
support elements.
An enemy advance will be handled much the same
way. Mobile reinforcements will assist Home Forces in
blunting the advance whilst the Imperial supply line
is harassed by fleet elements. Again, the emphasis
will be on offensive action – in this case defending
the Confederation by striking into the Imperium. This
strategy revolves around the superior resilience of
the Solomani people, who will resist Imperial attacks
vigorously and make occupation hell for the Imperials
if they are overrun. Tough, proud Solomani citizens will
endure being cut off for a time where Imperials in the
same position will collapse.
Thus any future major conflict is expected to be a
battle of wills, which the Solomani Confederation is
absolutely convinced it can win. Previous conflicts
have strengthened the belief that the Imperials have
little stomach for a protracted fight. Their people will
be clamouring for peace as soon as the first casualty
reports come in, whereas the Solomani will proudly
pay the price for victory. Hopeful as this thinking may
seem, in fact it is the only viable strategy: fight hard,
grab what you can and bleed the enemy for every gain
they make, then win the war at the negotiating table.
Ship design is tailored to support this strategy. In
addition to powerful battleships, the Confederation
Navy has a large battlecruiser force. Operating
in conjunction with a force of strike destroyers, a

battlecruiser can inflict heavy damage on enemy
infrastructure and overwhelm anything but a capital
ship. Against those, the key is rapid concentration of
force so the enemy is smothered with fire before being
able to do much harm. There is also a rather cynical
observation to be made, that the same amount of
damage will force a battlecruiser out of action – albeit
for a longer period of repairs – as a battleship. Since
the Confederation naval budget is much smaller than
that of the Imperium, the emphasis is on delivering
enough damage to force the withdrawal of an enemy
unit, doing so as cheaply as possible.
This philosophy is echoed throughout the fleet. Strike
destroyers armed with torpedoes or fusion guns are
favoured over more balanced designs. These vessels
either operate as flotillas of similar ships or in
support of one or more battlecruisers, and it is these
battlecruiser/destroyer forces that form the backbone
of the Confederation’s striking and rapid-reaction
forces. Fleet cruisers are often equipped for the escort
and support role, equipped with a mix of light beam
weapons and missiles.
The fleet also operates a surprisingly large number
of battle riders; far more than it has tenders for. This
allows a standard design to be deployed as a ‘battle
monitor’ to defend key points and for reinforcements
to be delivered to any system that needs them.
Tenders are considered to be transport vessels rather
than the tender/rider grouping being a warfighting
asset. That is to say these are defensive assets even
when mobile, used to consolidate behind an advance
or to reinforce threatened systems. Riders are rarely
deployed offensively.
Cruisers tend to be specialist vessels intended to
support others rather than independent assets in
their own right. Strike and bombardment cruisers
are deployed for planetary attack, along with assault
ships designed to deliver marine forces and troop
transports for the army. Carriers are also used in this
role, typically deploying fighters capable of entering
atmosphere in support of ground combat forces.
The patrol forces typically make do with frigates and
those escort vessels not in use by the ‘warfighting’
formations. Some cruisers are also available but the
cruiser budget has always been subordinate to the
needs of the capital ship and destroyer forces. In
Solomani parlance, the distinction between heavy and
light cruisers is in regard to armament rather than
size or overall capability. A heavy cruiser has a spinal
mount of some kind; a light cruiser does not. A recent
revival is the ‘system control ship’ concept; a cruisersized vessel combining the capabilities of a cruiser

73

