EXPLORATION AND

SURVEY

The Solomani Confederation does not have a dedicated
exploration and communications service. Instead
these functions are carried out by the navy or private
concerns, either independently or on contract to the
Confederation government. It is not uncommon for
naval officers to spend at least a part of their career
aboard a survey or short-range exploration ship and for
older naval vessels to be repurposed for exploration or
survey work.
Naval personnel are first and foremost warfighters,
so in order to obtain the necessary scientific and
specialist expertise the navy runs an associate and
consultancy programme. This is open to former naval
personnel or those interested in serving aboard a naval
exploration ship. In the latter case the associate must
complete a truncated naval training course enabling
them to carry out basic functions aboard a starship
without getting in the way of other crewmembers. The
course also enables the navy to filter out potential
troublemakers. No matter how brilliant a scientist may
be, they cannot be permitted to challenge the authority
of a ship’s officers.
Those who have already completed a period of naval
service are typically reinstated at their old rank.
This is common in the case of personnel who have
served a single term in order to qualify for education
benefits. In this case, the return to service carried
an exploration-only clause, whereby the returnee is
guaranteed a place aboard an exploration or survey
vessel, or at a base supporting them. Exploration-only
personnel can be transferred to fighting vessels in
the case of a major emergency but the Confederation
Navy generally treats its members honourably. Those
who enter into an agreement to come back on specific
terms will usually find they are honoured. Those who
do not want to join or return to the navy become
civilian consultants. They have no place on a ship’s
chain of command but may be important to its overall
mission and will be consulted by the exploration
ship’s officers when appropriate.
As discussed elsewhere, the navy provides a rapid
communications network between the bases and major
worlds of the Confederation. This is administered
by the Support Operations Command branch of
the navy Whilst capable of interstellar flight, naval
couriers are not considered to be starships as such.
They are instead communications assets under
the control of a base or parent ship. Commanding
officers tend to be lieutenants gaining experience
in a limited-responsibility posting before moving
on to a more senior post aboard a larger ship. A

period as commanding officer of a courier is not
counted as holding ‘a command’ in the usual sense,
since the vessel remains subordinate to the local
communications group or a parent installation, but it
is a stepping-stone to greater things. Couriers typically
carry just two officers – one in command and one with
specialist communications and security duties. All
other personnel are ratings, who tend to spend longer
in couriers than officers do but will eventually move to
some other role.

Survey

Survey operations, whilst unglamorous, are an essential
part of the Confederation Navy’s duties. Forming the
larger part of the Survey and Exploration Command’s
remit, survey operations are mainly to do with
ensuring system maps are kept up-to-date. A number
of specialist survey vessels exist, carrying powerful
sensor equipment to allow remote charting of moons or
planetoid fields. However, the majority of survey work is
carried out by patrol vessels identical to those operated
by Internal Security Command. Indeed, a survey ship
is considered to be a patrol asset and sometimes a
survey mission will be launched with a secondary goal
of putting a warship into the target system.
Survey work is mostly routine and often quite dull,
revolving around mapping planetary surfaces and
bodies in space and comparing them to known
data. However, survey ships poke around in places
that commerce-protection patrols do not visit. They
occasionally stumble upon a pirate or smuggler base,
or some other secret installation. It does not matter
to a pirate whether the frigate overhead is under the
control of Internal Security Command or Survey and
Exploration Command; the end result is the same.
Whilst survey work is, on the whole, less glamorous
than a fleet deployment it is important to the security
of the Confederation and the smooth flow of merchant
traffic. Surveys are not restricted to physical objects;
a frigate might be tasked with observing traffic in and
out of a particular starport or patterns of commerce
between a major world’s many starports. It may also
be carrying out some other mission under the guise of
survey work. A system survey is a typical cover for an
intelligence-gathering operation, which may be carried
out by dedicated intelligence ships posing as survey
vessels or an intelligence team might be placed aboard
a survey vessel.

Exploration

The Solomani Confederation has an open frontier to
rimward. Exploration has been ongoing for many years,
with survey vessels following up to increase the depth
of knowledge available. Most exploration work is carried

75

