out by older warships that have been converted to their
new role. Many of these vessels are permanently based
at forward exploration-support installations, with crews
ferried out to them when a new mission is planned.
Most exploration is relatively short-ranged, with a
specific objective such as visiting all the worlds in a
particular cluster or learning more about a specific
race encountered by an earlier expedition. General
exploration tends to take place further out, with ships
or task forces venturing into wholly unknown areas and
carrying out an initial reconnaissance of the region.
Exploration missions are usually carried out by task
forces rather than solo ships, although vessels may
break off from an expedition to investigate specific
targets. For example, a recent mission deployed nine
Tenzing-class exploration vessels supported by a
converted light carrier. During the first phase of the
mission the Tenzings proceeded in three groups of
three along parallel axes, with the carrier following.
Each group of three ships followed a leapfrog pattern,
with one ship pushing ahead, another staying behind to
investigate a find and the third moving fast to catch up
to the leader after completing its own investigation.
At a point well rimward of the Confederation border,
three of the Tenzing-class vessels detached and began
proceeding to spinward. Their mission has not been
publicly disclosed, other than a vague report of a ‘longrange exploration mission’. Nothing has been heard of
these vessels since but they are not posted as missing.
The other exploration vessels and their support ship
continued rimwards to a prearranged rendezvous point,
then began exploring out from this location whilst
the carrier conducted detailed surveys and scientific
research in a smaller group of systems. Despite the
inevitable surprises and setbacks, the mission returned
safely to its forward base, whereupon most personnel
transferred back into Confederation space. Queries
from interested parties about the other three ships have
elicited no response beyond ‘believed to be still engaged
in their scheduled mission.’
The greatest exploration project to date was an
expedition to the Perseus Arm – the next spiral arm
of the galaxy out from the one containing Charted
Space. Although the mission was widely publicised, few
concrete details are available. It is commonly reported
that some seventeen vessels were sent starting in 1050.
However, the great fanfare with which the project was
launched soon faded away. Data on the expedition, other
than its launch and the systems it passed through in the
early stages, is restricted. This has led to speculation
that the mission met with disaster, or was perhaps a
cover for some other endeavour.

76

Solomani Confederation Marines

The Confederation Marines are directly subordinate to
the navy, rather than being a separate organisation.
They are used as a rapid-reaction strike force but their
primary duty is to serve as ship’s troops and security
force for the navy. They are trained for shipboard
boarding and counter-boarding actions and spend most
of their time protecting naval bases and vessels in
starports. The marines also serve as an elite protectedforces unit trained in assaulting asteroids, highports,
space stations and vacuum worlds. They are not
intended for extended planetary deployments. The
Confederation Marines lack the support infrastructure
that the army possesses, relying instead on navy vessels
and personnel for logistic and medical functions.
Confederation Marines are typically equipped with
combat armour, although some units are trained in
battle dress operations. They do not have the grav
armour and artillery Imperial Marine regiments are
equipped with, expecting to rely on navy fire support and
ship-launched fighters instead. Typically, Confederation
Marines land aboard assault starships or in naval
shuttles and pinnaces, although some units may use
jump capsules.
Like the navy, the marines also find themselves used
in non-combat scout and survey missions, serving as
landing parties on exploration ships. Marine officers
are encouraged to take degrees in fields useful for
planetary exploration, such as planetology and biology
or archaeology.

THE CONFEDERATION

ARMY

The Army of the Confederation has a broad remit
covering peacekeeping, disaster relief and suppression
of insurgency as well as warfighting against internal and
external foes. Most of its assets are deployable but the
army does garrison and operate several large fortresses
on key worlds. These are unusual, in that normally an
army force deployed to a member world for defensive
purposes would be seconded to its Home Forces but
the Twelve Great Fortresses of the Confederation and
the many smaller ones are Confederation territory. They
cooperate with, but are not part of, the Home Forces of
their host worlds.
The army trains to defend and assault worlds, and to
fight wars on them. It has no space assets – that is the
preserve of the marines – and relies on the navy to get
its forces to the ground. Once there, the army fights as
an all-arms force with ground, aerospace and maritime
elements deployed as needed. Aerospace assets may

