operate at high or low orbit but are ground-based for the
most part. Most army units are trained to operate out of
a navy carrier or transport but this is more in the manner
of troops advancing out of a base in vehicles rather than
fighting as marines.
The army is administratively organised as regiments,
most of which have multiple battalions. The majority of
regiments have a long history, although it is common to
raise entirely new regiments under some circumstances.
This usually happens when there is insufficient time
to ensure the personnel of a new battalion are properly
indoctrinated into the history and culture of an existing
regiment. In such cases it is deemed better for the new
formation to make its own history than to trust a newly
formed unit with the responsibility of upholding the
glorious name of an existing regiment.
Regiments are not fighting formations. Those are built
up as needed from whatever forces are required or
are available. Most higher formations are theoretically
transient but in practice a brigade, division or corps
will usually exist for a decade or more, moving from
one deployment to another and seeing many units
transferred in and out, before disappearing in the next
round of reorganisations. Some of the more famous
higher formations have been granted permanency,
becoming the equivalent of regiments in terms of unit
culture and history. Being assigned to one of these
permanent formations is a great honour; rival regiments
compete hotly for a place in a top formation, which in
some cases has led to long-lasting feuds between units.
Most formations are ‘square’, consisting of a threeand-one assignment of sub-units. Typically the three
are the primary-function sub-units with a support or
specialist formation completing the unit. The support
unit might be a composite of different types, especially
in smaller formations. In addition, each unit has a field
headquarters, to which may be attached additional
support assets and a base headquarters that maintains
records and handles the unit’s administration.
For example, an infantry battalion will normally be
composed of three infantry companies and a field
headquarters. It will also have a support company
containing a small number of specialists in a variety
of roles: typically this will be aerospace defence, field
artillery, reconnaissance and field engineering. Thus an
infantry battalion has a measure of all-arms capability,
enabling it to deal with most threats without calling for
external assistance. This is particularly important when
a battalion is deployed far from support, as can happen
in a widespread conflict. Units are encouraged to be
self-reliant but willing to request assistance if needed.

The majority of infantry battalions of the Solomani
Confederation are formed as lift infantry, with each
battalion possessing sufficient grav transport for the
entire force. Grav APCs carry aerospace defence or
fire support weapons and the support company has
its own transport. A lift infantry battalion is entirely
grav-mobile using only its own resources but cannot
maintain its transports beyond the short term.
Workshops are available at the unit’s base and mobile
maintenance formations are assigned to formations
when they are fielded.
Infantry forces are trained to undertake a variety of tasks
from disaster relief through counter-insurgency work
to straight warfighting. It is a matter of principle that
any infantry battalion can undertake any infantry task.
However, a great many specialist infantry formations
exist, which are optimised for particular deployments.
Not all of these are equipped as lift infantry.
Cavalry battalions are considered to be an infantry
force, whereas in some forces ‘cavalry’ is used as
a term for armoured troops. Cavalry formations use
lightly armoured, fast grav transport vehicles backed
up by fire-support platforms, with troops capable of
fighting from their vehicles or dismounting to operate
as conventional infantry. Cooperation between infantry
and vehicle elements is much closer than in the
conventional infantry formations. Despite the openterrain connotations of the name, cavalry units are
primarily used in urban, and sometimes mountainous,
areas where their ability to hop from one high point to
the next allows a rapid assault or mobile defence to be
undertaken. Most support weapons are of a direct-fire
sort, employed aggressively and often at short range.
When part of a larger formation, cavalry units are
either grouped into specialist urban combat formations
or form the supporting element of an armoured
reconnaissance unit.
Commando battalions are special operations units
specialising in raiding, reconnaissance, the sharp end
of counter-insurgency operations and unconventional
warfare. Commando battalions are sometimes deployed
as a whole unit, especially in major conflicts, but are
more commonly a source of detachments to be sent out
as needed. Commando units will sometimes be able to
infiltrate ahead of an invasion or may stay behind after
a retreat. They may cause diversionary mayhem well
away from friendly forces in a major conflict or conduct
reconnaissance close to them. Commando teams are
also used for hostage-rescue and high value target
elimination operations. Their greatest contribution,
however, is usually in terms of intelligence painstakingly
gathered in the face of an enemy or potential enemy.

77

