Confederation Army Equipment

Most personnel likely to come into contact with
the enemy are equipped in TL12 combat armour,
with a few units using battle dress. Rearechelon personnel are usually equipped with
a lightweight (and cheaper) version of combat
armour, which still provides protection against
gas, chemical weapons and the like. For low-key
operations the army uses fatigues, body armour
and a helmet in ‘city green’ – a green-grey
colour that blends into a typical city backdrop
surprisingly well.
Gauss weapons are preferred as small arms and
light support weapons, with plasma and fusion
guns at the squad level. Battle dress equipped
troops may use gauss or plasma weapons
depending on their mission or a mix of types.
Lasers are generally unpopular other than as
multi-use sniper rifle/designator systems. A
variety of one-shot missile launchers are in use,
all capable of engaging flying or ground targets.
Light missiles are designed for use against
aircraft and soft-skinned vehicles whilst heavy
launchers are intended to pose at least some
threat to tanks. Drone/missile launchers are also
used, enabling an infantry unit to obtain its own
reconnaissance data and make indirect guided
attacks on bunkers or personnel concentrations.

Heavy Infantry battalions do not have an organic
transport element, as they are intended to undertake a
specialist role. There are two kinds of heavy infantry.
One is equipped with battle dress but not trained for
orbital insertion to the battle area. Such formations
are rare but are sometimes deployed as assault troops,
usually operating in conjunction with heavy grav tanks.
The more common kind of heavy infantry is equipped
with far more support weapons than a standard infantry
force and intended to provide a strong defence in
an urban or otherwise cluttered area. Heavy infantry
formations of this sort are well-equipped to knock out
armoured vehicles either from ambush or as tankhunter teams.
Jump Infantry battalions are trained to make orbital
assaults using atmospheric entry capsules. Jump
troops are equipped with battle dress and are more
commonly deployed as conventional assault forces
than making a meteoric insertion from orbit. Jump
infantry units frequently have to operate without
much support, so make use of battle dress variants
acting as support weapon, electronic warfare and
combat engineering platforms. Where possible,

78

however, a jump infantry force will be rapidly backed
up by grav vehicles carrying weapons, supplies and
conventionally equipped troops.
Light Infantry battalions are equipped the same as
lift infantry but have no grav transport. A lift infantry
unit may be converted to ‘light’ status by handing off
its transport element to the logistics pool or another
unit. This is done when the unit is to operate in an
environment where vehicles are little use, such as
within an arcology. Light infantry are also deployed
aboard some starships, essentially using assault
shuttles instead of their vehicles. Highly mobile
warfare conducted in this manner is referred to as
‘bouncing around’ with sub-units switched rapidly
from point-to-point. Particularly ‘bouncy’ units may
eventually be designated Naval Infantry and receive
additional training, becoming the nearest equivalent
the Confederation has to Imperial Marines.
Protected Forces battalions are equipped for combat
in environments requiring protective equipment. All
units are trained for vacuum operations, typically
on airless worlds or bodies with an unbreathable
atmosphere. Some formations are additionally
equipped for extreme environments such as corrosiveatmosphere worlds. Infantry trained for underwater
operations are included within the protected forces
classification. Typically, a ‘Protfors’ battalion will be
equipped much like a standard infantry force, with its
own organic aerospace defence and other specialist
personnel. Higher formations may include artillery,
armoured and other supporting forces, all similarly
trained for protected-forces operations.
In addition to specialist and standard infantry
battalions, the Confederation Army fields the usual
array of combat forces. Aerospace defence, artillery
and armoured battalions are usually teamed up with
infantry to create a combined arms force; whilst
infantry battalions might be deployed solo it is unlikely
any other unit would be. Transport, engineering,
electronic warfare and medical battalions are also
assigned to forces as needed or may be broken up to
provide detachments where they are needed.

Field Formations

Detachments of specialist troops may be sent to carry
out all manner of tasks and occasionally a company
of infantry may be assigned to guard an installation
but fielding such small forces poses an administrative
problem. When a small force is deployed in this
manner, it is usually part of a multi-service – or even
multi-agency – task force that will be assigned an
overall commander and staff.

