It is not uncommon to find these task forces in remote
areas where military or economic infrastructure is
being developed. For example, the Confederation
wishes to build an intelligence-gathering and
processing centre on a backwater world. The
installation will be operated by the Confederation’s
intelligence service but whilst it is being built a team
from Naval Intelligence is on hand to advise.
The primary defensive force is an infantry company
and an aerospace defence detachment, with an
additional security company operating in the
surrounding area. The project also involves a civilian
construction force. By tradition, groundside projects
of this sort are commanded by an army officer, with
other agencies placing forces under their command
for the duration. This project would be commanded
on a temporary basis by an army major, with a small
administrative staff. Respective units would retain
their own internal chain of command but answer to
the overall commander.
Larger formations are more formally organised. When
a battalion is deployed as a single unit or reinforced
battalion with a few supporting units, the battalion’s
commanding officer will usually be the most senior
officer present. Higher formations are almost always
assigned a general officer (an officer above the rank of
colonel) and a staff plus a security element.
Brigades are typically commanded by a brigadier and
built on a standard three-and-one arrangement. Most
commonly this is three lift infantry battalions and a
grav-mobile artillery battalion but other formations
exist. An armoured reconnaissance brigade might
have three light armoured battalions and a cavalry
battalion; an artillery brigade might have three
artillery units and an aerospace defence battalion.
Grav tank units are either grouped as one tank
battalion to three lift infantry, creating an armoured
infantry brigade or three tank to one lift infantry
creating an armoured brigade.
Divisions are typically commanded by a major-general
and use a variant of the standard three-and-one.
Typically a division will have two brigades of the
primary troop type and one of a similar type, plus a
brigade-equivalent of supporting or specialist troops.
For example a lift infantry division might have two
lift infantry brigades, an armoured infantry brigade
and a supporting force grouped as a brigade for
administrative purposes. This provisional brigade
might contain an artillery battalion, armoured
reconnaissance battalion, aerospace defence battalion
and a composite workshop and support battalion. To
this would be added various units, attached to the
divisional headquarters, as required.

Corps are typically commanded by a lieutenantgeneral and contain two or more divisions or divisionequivalents plus supporting troops, which might
be organised into divisions, brigades or temporary
formations. It is common for a corps to have only
one division of a particular unit type and for other
formations to be composed of whatever units are
available. A variety of support formations may be
attached at the corps level. For example, a corps
might contain a neatly organised lift infantry division
plus a provisional infantry division containing one
lift infantry brigade, an armoured infantry brigade
and a couple of independent specialist infantry
battalions. In addition it has an artillery brigade and
an armoured reconnaissance brigade plus a number
of independent battalions.
Armies are typically commanded by a full general and
contain two or more corps. An army would normally
have responsibility for a continent-sized theatre of
operations or a specialist function that might see
its units spread out over a wide area. For example,
an important world may be defended by multiple
armies. Most are set up for ground combat and
comprise multiple lift infantry divisions and other
forces. In addition the world has a large complement
of maritime forces organised as an army and two
aerospace combat armies operating a mix of groundbased defensive weapons and aerospace vehicles.
Where a theatre of operations has multiple armies or
where cooperation between different services is of the
utmost importance, a Marshal of the Confederation
may be appointed to take overall command. Typically,
a Marshal given command of military forces will
have experience of serving in one of the arms they
command but this is not always the case.

THE HOME FORCES

All forces operated by the member governments of
the Confederation, as opposed to the Confederation
itself, are termed Home Forces. Elements of the
Home Forces that are equipped to the same standards
as the Confederation’s military and trained to operate
alongside them are termed Home Guard. All of a
member government’s Home Forces may meet Home
Guard standards but this is rare. More commonly,
only a proportion are equipped to this standard
as it is expensive and may not meet the member
government’s needs.
Member governments are required to maintain
sufficient forces to control their territory and enforce
Confederation law but what forces are used to do
this is left to discretion. The Home Forces of worlds
located close to troubled borders are often subsidised,

79

