creating tough fortresses on the likely path of an
enemy’s advance. Member governments can also
offset the cost of their Home Forces by providing
a proportion of their units to the Confederation.
These formations move to Attached Forces status for
the duration of the assignment. This setup allows
Home Forces units to gain experience and permits
the owning government to maintain more and better
forces than would be otherwise possible whilst at
the same time demonstrating active loyalty to the
Solomani Confederation.
Most member governments maintain a sufficient naval
force to provide for orbital defence and in-system
patrol. Only the richest have navies of their own
and these are typically little more than patrol and
escort forces intended to protect commerce in nearby
systems. A few major worlds have powerful fleets
however, which have at times been used for internal
conflict. The Confederation may or may not intervene
in a blockade or even combat situation, depending on
how the political winds are blowing.
Ground forces are typically optimised for aerospace
defence, urban security and the ability to make fast
mobile sweeps into a troubled area. As with naval
forces, few member governments feel the need to
maintain an army capable of fighting a major war.
There are exceptions, however, especially along the
borders. The more militaristic member governments
eagerly recruit personnel who did not quite make the
grade for service with the Confederation armed forces
or who have left early in their career for some reason.
Some Home Forces are notorious for not being choosy
about who they take on, providing they have received
Confederation training. This can lead to an officer
being discharged from the Confederation forces under
suspicion of serious wrongdoing, only to show up
again as part of an Attached Forces unit.
Home Forces units, by definition, mostly operate in
the territory of their owning government. However,
dispensation can be given for operations elsewhere.
One government can receive assistance from another,
for example, without requiring permission from the
central Confederation authorities. Units designated
as Home Guard are in addition liable for activation by
the Confederation military for any suitable mission or
assignment, although this is to be done with due regard
to the member government’s own security needs.
The existence of the Home Forces is a hotly debated
point in Confederation politics. There are those who
think the Confederation would be a more stable
place if members were not allowed to operate forces
capable of invading one another. However, this seems
to be impractical to many. A Confederation that does

80

not trust or permit its member governments to defend
themselves is not worth belonging to. In any case, the
Home Forces serve a useful purpose, that of ensuring
all member governments can protect their territory
from incursions by Imperials, Aslan or anyone else.
During the Solomani Rim War, Confederation forces
were tied down on worlds that had failed to provide
for their own defence and reforms pushed through by
General Secretary Wolfe were intended to ensure that
never happened again.
An oft-overlooked function of this arrangement
was to mitigate the effects of demobilisation after
the Solomani Rim War. The Home Forces offered
employment for many veterans and continue to do
so to this day. Personnel transferring to the Home
Forces after service in the Confederation armed
forces are normally assigned equivalent rank or
slightly less. Those with a very good record may be
offered a promotion upon joining. Seniority gained by
Confederation personnel on secondment to the Home
Forces is normally respected when they return to
Confederation service but the converse is rarely true.
It is uncommon for someone to transfer from Home
Forces to Confederation service and those that do
usually drop a rank or two unless they are extremely
well-regarded or fulfil a vital role that cannot
otherwise be filled.
The laws of the Confederation mandate a minimum
budget percentage to be spent on Home Forces,
which can be exceeded if the member government
wishes. This is augmented by a variety of programmes
intended to get additional forces out of member
governments. One example is the ‘Loyalty Ships’
programme, implemented about 20 years ago.
Member worlds are encouraged to fund one or
more warships in addition to their Home Forces
contribution and to gift them to the Confederation.
These ships are always named in a strict sequence,
with the member government’s name followed by
a designated name for the first in the line. Thus
anyone encountering CSS Aquitaine Guardian is
reminded of the loyalty of the Aquitaine government.
Guardian is the third designated name, so the
observer knows Aquitaine has funded at least three
ships for the Confederation Navy, above and beyond
its normal contribution.
Home Forces units are usually a mix of regulars and
reservists, with some units permanently embodied
and others maintained as a skeleton to be filled out
with activated reservists at need. Reserve units may
be equipped to Confederation standards but are never
designated as Home Guard – such formations have to
be ready to serve anywhere, at any time, just like the
Confederation’s own units.

