The Home Forces’ primary mission is to ensure
Solomani worlds can offer effective, sustained
resistance against sudden raids by small or medium
size Imperial or Aslan forces. This means that they
are expected to train to fight the Imperial Navy
and Imperial Marines or Aslan ihatei. Since most
Confederation worlds are significantly less advanced
than the TL15 elite troops of the Imperium, their
doctrine is non-conventional, based on lessons
learned in the defence of Terra and other worlds
during the Solomani Rim War.
While Terra did eventually fall, the price exacted
by its defenders, which included not only regular
troops but also many thousands of civilian guerrillas,
was high enough to stop the Imperial advance in its
tracks. Had the Confederation Navy forces not already
been expended in scattered defence of frontier
worlds, a counterattack might have been possible that
could have ended the war on more favourable terms.
Confederation planners see the Home Forces as the
lynchpin of a defence-in-depth strategy, soaking up
and pinning down invaders until the navy can cut
them off and the army can liberate lost territory.
The Home Forces are part of a set of measures
intended to enable a Confederation planet to resist
long enough to be relieved. This requires designing
key military and political infrastructure such as

communication systems and logistics to enable
them to withstand external shocks from a superior
enemy force. The pervasive, cellular structure of the
Solomani Party is employed in conjunction with the
Home Guard to organise civil defence measures such
as evacuation, food distribution and the continuity
of government. Civil defence drills against planetary
assault are regular affairs on border worlds and
not neglected even on worlds far from the border.
Naturally, these activities have the useful benefit of
serving the Cause by keeping the Solomani population
anxious about external threats.
Home Forces are trained to put up an effective
fight even against the more advanced forces of the
Imperium. Given the technological disparity, much
emphasis is placed on the ability to offer an effective
threat to grav tanks and battle dress equipped
marines using lower-technology equipment. Thus a
larger than usual proportion of Home Guard forces
are heavy infantry, with light anti-armour and antimateriel weapons liberally distributed among infantry
formations. This reduces mobility but ensures at least
marginal effectiveness. In addition, units are prepared
to engage in planetary guerrilla warfare, emphasising
urban combat. Although command and control are
centralised under normal circumstances, Home
Forces units are expected to be able to function under
decentralised command.

81

