C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

E

V

E

N

SOLOMANI SECURITY
SolSec is the internal intelligence agency of the
Solomani Confederation. Its purpose is ‘the maintenance
and protection of the Solomani Cause against all
enemies’. SolSec grew out of the Solomani Party’s
Committee of Consolidation, an organisation intended
to resolve disputes of dogma between Party factions and
the Delegate Protection Group that provided security at
the early General Party Congresses.
After the Solomani Confederation became a state,
SolSec turned into that state’s major intelligence
and security agency, acquiring professional staffs
from various planetary security forces and Solomani
supporters with ex-Imperial Ministry of Justice and
Naval Intelligence veterans. However, it never lost its
fundamentally political orientation.
During the troubled period leading up to the Solomani
Rim War, SolSec began working with the Monitors,
a patriotic citizen’s watchdog group that exposed
government and corporate corruption in the Solomani
Rim. The monitor programme was extended to
reporting on Imperial subversion but its success saw it
greatly expanded into a network of public observers and
secret informers that pervades Solomani society. Today,
SolSec has far greater power than its main rivals,
Imperial Intelligence or Imperial Naval Intelligence.
However, most of its power is directed inward against
its own population.
SolSec has broad, constitutionally granted powers
of investigation and arrest. These give SolSec
jurisdiction over military personnel in a manner that
has caused great resentment at times. The Political
Officers assigned to warships and military formations
are notorious, although they rarely deserve their bad
reputation. Although the embedding of SolSec personnel
in the military is important, SolSec’s most potent
capabilities come from the many undercover or sleeper
agents it inserts into targeted organisations. These are
supplemented by an extensive monitor programme,
which in concert with highly automated data processing
systems give it a society-wide capacity for surveillance
exceeded only by the Zhodani thought police.

82

ORGANISATION

SolSec is divided into several directorates and sections.

Office of the Coordinator

The office of the SolSec Coordinator manages the
affairs of the three directorates. Under the Coordinator
are various sector and subsector offices, as well as
departments such as Archives, Personnel, Training and
Finance. The office also includes the Committee of
Consolidation, now an advisory body that directly reports
to the SolSec Coordinator.
The Committee of Consolidation decides what ideologies
constitute a real threat to the Solomani Cause and
disseminate it to the other directorates of the agency.
The Policy Committee also acts as a final star chamber
that sits in secret judgement whenever a question comes
up regarding disloyalty of any Solomani Confederation
citizens too important to be summarily arrested. This
includes admirals, generals, members of the secretariat
or ministry and leaders of planetary governments or
Party factions. This would apply to anyone with or
directly connected to a person with SOC 14–15.
In the early decades of the Solomani Confederation
‘Consolidation’ was often a rubber stamp for the general
consensus of the High Council. In the century since
the Solomani Rim War it has become more scientific,
commissioning detailed, secret academic studies to
determine what levels of control or openness will best
serve to sustain the Solomani state and how permitting
or suppressing particular ideas, philosophies and
factions will have long term socio-political trends affect
the Solomani Cause.
This has slowly moved it into the position of engaging
in psychohistorical manipulation, albeit only within the
limited sphere of information control. The very existence
of these studies is highly secretive and often the
academics involved in reviewing or gathering sociological
data involved have no idea where their actual funding
is coming from. SolSec’s ability to engage in low-level
psychohistorical research is greatly enhanced by the
vast resources of personal and political information it
possesses in its database and the enormous computing
power it has available to collate this data. SolSec is

