nowhere near the capability of performing Hiver-level
psychohistorical manipulations but its ongoing operations
do give it a reasonable chance of detecting ongoing
attempts to manipulate the Confederation’s population.

SolSec Directorates

SolSec is subdivided into three directorates and these
are divided into various sections and offices, each of
which is a huge organisation in their own right. Within
a given directorate there are field agents, secret agents,
paramilitary or security personnel and interrogation
experts as well as ordinary analysts, administrative and
support staff.
A SolSec headquarters complex on a mid-size world
will have a building for each directorate and a floor for
each section, and probably a private landing area for a
few SolSec courier ships at the world’s main starport. A
tiny SolSec office in the startown of a backwater world
may only have a few multi-tasking agents from the
Internal Directorate.

Internal Directorate

This branch of SolSec is focused on operations
within Solomani Confederation society. It has the
highest status within the agency and the largest
size; it also administers the SolSec monitor program.
The Coordinator-General of the Internal Directorate
frequently becomes the next SolSec coordinator.
The Internal Directorate is ubiquitous throughout
the Confederation. Offices are normally found on any
Confederation world with population 1,000 or more and
a Class A, B, C or D starport. Smaller or less important
systems may not have offices but probably have at least
one monitor or covert agent present.
The Internal Directorate benefits from the extensive
volunteer monitor system and commuter networks
that automate most data processing and analysis.
Automated systems do sometimes result in citizens
being investigated and in rare cases arrested by mistake.
If so, further diligent investigation will usually uncover
something questionable the citizen or an acquaintance
has done wrong, justifying a warning or penalty.
The Political Section is the most important branch
of the Internal Directorate. Its mission is to ensure
the loyalty of Confederation politicians, ranking
Solomani Party members – especially those with key
positions in world governments – the Secretariat or
the ministerial bureaucracies.

The General Section has a broader mandate. It is
charged with maintaining the loyalty of the average
Solomani citizen outside of government. Its focus is
those involved in activities that can influence large
numbers of people, such as people in the media,
education and business. They organise and analyse
reports provided by the monitor programme and open
sources and take action where necessary, sending agents
to warn or arrest the individual or informing employers
or business partners.
The Internal Directorate’s Navy and Army Sections are
concerned with political surveillance to ensure the loyalty
of the armed forces. This includes stationing of SolSec
officers in military bases and task forces as observers,
as well as sleeper agents within military careers. Since
1001, SolSec officers have also handled all criminal
investigative activities within the Solomani Army and
Navy. This means that military personnel can never be
sure whether a SolSec agent is investigating something
mundane, like a sexual assault or misappropriation
of military stores, or something political, like their
commander’s commitment to the Cause. They also
investigate any charges of war crimes or atrocities
connected to the army, navy or Home Forces.
The Counter-Intelligence Section is tasked with
eliminating foreign agents within the Solomani
Confederation. The similarity between Imperial and
Solomani cultures and the many Imperials of Solomani
background make this task difficult, although some
aspects of the work are simplified by SolSec’s extensive
extra-legal powers. Counter-Intelligence operates in
all areas of Solomani culture but is especially diligent
in ferreting out spies within SolSec, the Party and the
Military. Considerable effort is also spent in hiding
strategic activities such as factories building military
components or the construction of military bases and
planetary defences on border worlds. Excessive zeal can
lead to the arrest or even elimination of innocent travellers
who accidentally stray too close to such activities.
The Integration Section has the responsibility to ensure
that non-Solomani of mixed race, Vilani ancestry or nonhuman origin, including primitive indigenous natives
(prindigs) are properly integrated into Confederation
society. This means monitoring and handling those
individuals or populations that are causing problems.
To this end, the section recruits low-level agents and
monitors from non–Solomani citizens so that cooperative
members of such non-Solomani minorities can better
help police their own kind. The Integration section also
monitors non-human aliens that are legally visiting the
Confederation. For example, when Aslan or Hivers visit

83

