a public monitor’s identity if queried but will protect
the identities of those monitors who wish to remain
anonymous. Civilian monitors are unpaid and have no
formal position with SolSec. Other citizens may view
them as patriotic, politically aware concerned citizens –
or as sinister informers.
Monitors operating within the armed forces are similar
to their civilian counterparts. Covert monitors ‘belong’
to SolSec and will be extracted once their identities are
revealed whereas overt monitors are part of their parent
service and can continue in their career for as long as
they like. The option is always available to transfer into
SolSec in some other capacity.
In the event of serious disloyalty, a monitor is expected
to step in and correct the situation. Typically this means
filing a report and waiting for SolSec to send someone
to make an arrest. However, sometimes direct action
is required. A monitor will grab a gun and defend the
bridge if mutineers try to take over and there are some
who are placed for their combat skills rather than simply
as observers and reporters. These individuals are termed
‘enforcers’ and may or may not fulfil the usual role
of a monitor. More commonly they are inserted into a
military force or corporate body to protect senior officials
– essentially the enforcer is a bodyguard the principal
does not know about – or to eliminate them if they take
certain actions. Enforcers typically have standing orders
on what to do under which circumstances, carrying out
their normal duties until they are needed.

External Directorate

The External Directorate is charged with engaging in
intelligence and covert operations intended to further
the Solomani Cause beyond the Confederation’s
borders. In particular, it is responsible for monitoring
and often manipulating Solomani Party organisations
and Solomani militants inside the Imperium. It also
attempts to keep track of all Solomani Confederation
citizens who travel outside the Confederation on non
governmental business. Although it cannot monitor
all of these people, External Directorate will shadow
persons of interest and if necessary, make use of them
for its own purposes. It is the SolSec branch likely to
be involved in non-Intelligence black operations in
the Imperium. The External Directorate also operates
in support of pro-Solomani movements in the various
pocket empires and border states located along the
rimward, Hiver and Aslan frontiers.
External Directorate is also in charge of gathering
foreign intelligence especially information of political,
military, corporate or scientific significance. Its
operations here overlap and sometimes compete with
Confederation Naval Intelligence and the Office of

Diplomatic Intelligence within the Ministry of Foreign
and Colonial Affairs but SolSec tends to perform riskier
operations. Its chief tactic is recruiting foreign citizens
as spies, especially those of Solomani descent living in
the Imperium.
The External Directorate is organised into sections
responsible for particular areas of operation, such
as the Aslan border, the Solomani Rim or the Hiver
frontier. The main area of operations are the Imperialoccupied subsectors of the former Solomani Sphere
but they do run agents beyond this region, such as a
section assigned to work Capital to gather intelligence
on political developments at the Imperial court. Their
primary targets include the Imperial nobility, diplomatic
corps, bureaucracy and military and well-placed
individuals working for megacorporations or border world
governments. For the last three decades, SolSec has
mounted covert operations aimed at developing agents
within the households of Imperial nobility; a recent
defector claimed these high-placed agents include the
spouse of an unnamed subsector duke within either
Alpha Crucis or the Solomani Rim.

Technical Directorate

The Technical Directorate is in charge of assisting
the other directorate through the maintenance and
development of specialised scientific and technical
capabilities and equipment. It develops and maintains
everything from SolSec grav vehicles to cybernetic
implants. The Technical Directorate uses all the
techniques available to the paramount intelligence
agency of a huge interstellar state: advanced electronic
surveillance, massive computer systems to process
information, agents with cybernetic and biotech
implants, personal courier starships for its elite agents,
secret training programs that produce psion units or
brainwashed assassins and billions of Credits worth of
exotic intelligence and counterintelligence gadgetry.
Its major focus is information technology, from the
advanced synaptic computer networks that analyse
monitor reports to sophisticated systems for tapping into
data networks. It also has access to much of the civilian
information infrastructure of Solomani society – SolSec
routinely taps television cameras, phone systems, post
offices and computer networks within the Confederation.
SolSec has infiltrated all Solomani corporations that
produce hardware and software for the Confederation’s
major planetary comm networks and have installed
back doors into almost all Confederation-manufactured
computers and communications networks. The Technical
Directorate’s back doors grant DM+4 to attempts by
SolSec operatives to tap or hack into any Solomanimade computer device or network, unless it is one that
SolSec or the military installed.

85

