This has been going on for centuries, so the
Confederation’s elite are well aware of it. In fact,
many senior Solomani Party members and business
people quietly import communications equipment and
software from the Imperium or Hive Federation to keep
SolSec from listening in. Of course, if SolSec discovers
such activity, it will certainly lead to questions of
loyalty and there is also a chance agents of Imperial
Intelligence services will have a back door into such
imported equipment.

Life Under SolSec

The majority of the Solomani Confederation’s citizens
regard SolSec as a perfectly necessary security agency.
In fact, SolSec’s monitor program allows citizens to
blow off a lot of steam by complaining about problems
in local planetary regimes that might otherwise fail
to listen to them. SolSec does pay attention to these
complaints and whilst isolated rants about a pet peeve
can be disregarded the opinions of ordinary citizens are
a useful way of gauging the situation and finding out
what the local authorities are trying to hide.
If someone in authority is failing to deal with a problem,
they are damaging the image of the Solomani Party and
harming the cause. SolSec’s response in that situation is
to correlate the information with other reports and if there
seems to be a real problem that is potentially breeding
dissent, to have a quiet word with the offending planetary
official or that person’s superiors so they know they are
being watched and will hopefully correct their behaviour
out of fear of further consequences.
SolSec primarily works by creating a climate in which
people internalise from an early age what they should
and should not say. The uniformity of public thought
is ultimately a matter of sensitivity to the ideological
atmosphere and is largely the result of people’s actions
themselves, rather than the heavy hand of state censors.
Publishers, educators and public speakers in the
Solomani Confederation rarely do anything that they
imagine might risk SolSec disapproval. Therefore, they
never stray far from the party line.
In the Solomani Confederation, Social Standing also
governs how much attention the SolSec secret police are
likely to pay them. SolSec may ignore reports that a SOC
6 store clerk is demonstrating pro-Imperial sympathies,
perhaps merely sending a report to a local Party cell.
They are less likely to do so if similar reports implicate
the SOC 9 owner of the city’s major air/raft dealership.
SolSec will almost certainly intervene if they have
reason to believe someone of SOC 10+ is disloyal, since
that person’s status places them in a position where
their disloyalty could damage the Solomani Cause.

86

Authoritarian governments live in fear of SolSec. The
sleeper agent program of SolSec is not designed to
ensure there is someone watching over everyone’s
shoulder. That is what the citizen monitors are intended
to do. Instead, it exists to allow SolSec the power to
intervene quietly against the powerful leaders of the
Solomani Party hierarchy and planetary governments.
A world’s dictator may be surrounded by mercenaries,
planetary secret police and regular Home Forces but
they can never tell whether their personal chauffeur,
paramour, the commander of their army or the person
who cleans their toilet is actually a deep cover SolSec
agent trained to act against them if they misbehave. The
more important they are, the more likely one or more
people close to them are enforcers.

Freedom of Speech

Solomani are free to believe what they want and publicly
express those beliefs, provided what they choose to
say can be plausibly expressed within the framework of
Solomani Party dogma. It is not good form to publicly
say the Solomani Confederation should not try to regain
Terra because the Imperium is too powerful to defeat or
is a force for good. On the other hand, it is fine to argue
for détente because the Confederation must build up its
strength before starting a new war or even that war is
unnecessary, as the Imperium’s internal corruption will
cause it to fragment on its own.
On the local level, it is acceptable to criticise a
Solomani Party-run bureaucracy for inefficiency and
blame its department heads. It is not acceptable to
claim that the same department would run better
if instead of Solomani, members of the Imperium’s
administratively-talented Vilani or Bwaps were staffing
offices. Nor is it wise to point out the reason things
at the department were slow last week was because
SolSec had arrested a key department head for
disseminating an underground news report criticising
Home Forces for committing atrocities quelling an antiSolomani rebellion.

SolSec Field Forces

SolSec has a large paramilitary arm that provides
security detachments to important individuals and
protects key installations. In addition it has heavily
armed pseudo-military formations used for a variety
of purposes. These include specialist anti-riot units
equipped with a mix of lethal and less-lethal weaponry.
Negotiation and peaceful dispersion are preferred
options and this is greatly facilitated by the presence of
SolSec troopers in urban security battle dress. Deploying
such a unit is very much an iron fist in a velvet glove
situation; often unarmed negotiators will approach

