C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

E

I

G

H

T

COMMERCE, LAW AND

ECONOMICS

The Solomani Confederation is an open, thriving
economic region rivalling the most productive regions
of the Imperium. The interstellar government does not
regulate commerce involving Solomani businesses.
People are free to run businesses and make money as
long as they pay their taxes and do not rock the social
boat by questioning the basic underpinnings of society.
Interstellar business taxes are kept low.
Confederation citizens may be born into a variety
of circumstances but for those of racial Solomani
background there are plentiful opportunities to rise
by achieving success and fame in particular fields
or becoming rich through business success. The
influence of the Solomani Party is also important. Job
applications, bank loans, business deals or license
applications are all expedited through the support of
influential Party members.
Contacts in the Solomani Party are useful in all aspects
of business. Often support can be garnered by giving
the local or regional levels of the Party an opportunity
to invest. There is some corruption but this is mitigated
by the activities of SolSec. Not only are Party members
watched for signs of graft but SolSec may decide a
business venture is important enough to the economy
that it should receive an elevated level of protection.
Although commerce within the Confederation is quite
open, there are tighter restrictions on business deals
involving foreign states, especially the Imperium.
Regulations prevent foreign individuals or companies
from purchasing controlling interests in Solomani
companies. They also restrict and heavily tax the
operations of companies whose corporate headquarters
are based outside the Solomani Confederation, such as
megacorporations. Foreign companies can operate if
they partner with Confederation firms in relationships
that ensure Solomani receive control, local jobs and
an equal share of the profits, and that such operations
do not undercut native Solomani industries. SolSec
spends a surprising amount of its time ensuring these
regulations are followed.

88

The absence of megacorporations – with the exception
of Transstar – means that the Solomani Confederation
has more business opportunities for smaller firms.
There are no economic superpowers that dominate
particular fields. The Solomani population is growing
on its newer frontier worlds and many worlds have
markets that are still undeveloped. The rimward border
is wide open for investment and exploitation, with
the Confederation offering substantial tax credits for
investments in those regions.
Making up for the lack of megacorporations is the
greater economic role taken by the Confederation Armed
Forces. The navy and to a lesser extent the army own
many businesses, mostly connected with the production
of munitions or vehicles. The military corporations differ
from government-run arsenals and navy yards in the
Imperium by also marketing their products in order to
make a profit. Customers include local Home Forces
and an approved list of mercenary units, client states
and independent worlds to rimward and trailing of the
Confederation. Some sales are also made on Ithklur
worlds in the Hive Federation and a few Aslan clans the
foreign ministry are attempting to influence.
Foreign military sales are a source of friction between
different factions. The Confederation is usually careful
not to release any secret or cutting-edge technologies
but concentrates on combat-proven designs whose
service record is also a selling point.

SOLOMANI

CORPORATIONS

The factionalism in the Solomani Confederation makes
the emergence of sphere-wide companies difficult. Most
Solomani companies are sector-wide or smaller. The
term sector-wide is somewhat of a misnomer, however.
Most such companies have operations or business
interests that extend into bordering regions of adjacent
sectors as well.

