Transstar

Transstar is the only Solomani corporation to achieve
megacorporation status, benefiting greatly from its
early support of the Solomani Movement. The largest
transportation firm in the entire Solomani Sphere,
Transstar is a merchant line running freight and passage
service throughout the entire Confederation. Now mainly
owned by the Solomani Party, it is a primary source of
Party income. Jobs at Transstar also serve as a prime
source of Party patronage. This also goes both ways: a
post as regional manager of Transstar is often a step on
the path to appointment to the Solomani High Council’s
Ministry of Economics. Transstar offers a discounted
travel rate (75% of fare) to Party members. Transstar is
believed to be heavily infiltrated by Solomani Security.
Transstar’s passenger line has a reputation for efficient
but somewhat unfriendly no-frills middle passage
service. Some of the older passenger liners are rather
grim second-hand colony ships or demobilised troop
transports purchased during an austerity period after
the Solomani Rim War. Recent effort has gone into
changing this perception, particularly through improving
high passage service on major sector routes connecting
to Home. Transstar’s pride is its Taj Mahal jump-4 fast
luxury liners, whose internal fittings and standard of
service rivals any similar design in the Imperium, with
prices to match. Transstar also operates orbital highport
facilities throughout the Confederation.

CONFEDERATION

LAW

Solomani Confederation Law, often incorrectly
termed Solomani Law, is a body of legislation and
precedent whose basis is set forth in the Solomani
Confederation’s founding Charter. Its framers derived
it from Imperial High Law along with elements
of the legal codes of the Old Earth Union, Terran
Confederation and Easter Concord. Confederation
Law sets rules for the interactions between world
governments and the Confederation government and
the basis by which regulations can be made for matters
like interstellar trade.
Confederation law applies everywhere, including
protectorates and on Confederation territory such as
naval bases or warships. It covers the same general
category of crimes as those illegal in the Imperium:
murder, theft, fraud, resisting arrest, treason and so on,
and in addition makes it illegal to spread ‘anti-Solomani
propaganda’. This is rather broadly defined and along
with laws against ‘conspiracy to subvert the Solomani
Charter’ can be taken as disallowing criticism of the
Solomani Cause.

Confederation law contains guarantees of individual
rights to a fair trial and the extension of law to
governments – that is, a government may not murder
its own or foreign citizens, unlawfully seize their
property or discriminate against specific groups.
However, all individual rights are subordinate to what
the Charter calls the Fundamental Principle, the
right of governments to perform those actions that
are necessary to ‘uphold and defend the Solomani
Cause’. One fundamental right that is guaranteed is the
freedom of any adult citizen of pure Solomani birth to
join the Party.
One effect of these laws is that a government facing a
possible revolution or with a large non-Solomani minority
can trample on basic human rights almost at will as
long its actions are justified as protecting the Cause.
SolSec will often perform a lengthy investigation to see
whether, for example, a religious cult was persecuted
for ‘legitimate’ reasons, such as it preaching sermons or
spreading dogma that questioned the legitimacy of the
Solomani Cause or illegal ones, such as the cult merely
having a divergent faith to that of the ruling elite.
Every so often, a member government does such a
poor job that the High Council or majority opinion in
the Secretariat determine it is dragging the Solomani
Cause down. If corrective measures are ineffective,
the government will have to be replaced. The quietest
way to do this is a SolSec-sponsored covert operation,
often using sleeper agents. If this fails overt action may
be required. The General Congress of the Solomani
Party can intervene by suspending the government’s
Party status or the Secretariat may vote to sanction
it. The bar is set high but the Secretary General can
ask the Secretariat to vote on a resolution declaring
a state of emergency that permits intervention by the
Confederation Army and Navy.

LOCAL LAW

Local laws are at the discretion of the member
government or the organisation running an independent
installation, with the exception that Confederation Law
also applies there. Local law enforcement agencies are
expected to enforce Confederation Law but often do
not for various reasons. Thus it is possible to commit
a ‘Confederation’ crime and be ignored by local law
enforcement until they are forced to act for some reason
– typically the arrival of agents from the Ministry of
Justice or a request from an official.
Policies on law enforcement also vary widely. There is no
mandated form of law enforcement agency or security
service, although most member governments follow
standard practices. On some worlds law enforcement

89

