is part of a wide-remit ‘civic protection service’, which
also includes maritime rescue, fire and urban rescue,
ambulance and possibly orbital rescue services. In other
areas these functions are kept separate.
A member government’s laws apply throughout its
territory, which typically means its entire home star
system. The Confederation Navy, Ministry of Justice
and SolSec also have jurisdiction and may be better
placed to deal with some infractions than planet-based
law enforcers. The apprehension of felons in the far
outsystem can result in some negotiation between
local and Confederation officials, as can the arrest
of individuals wanted on several worlds. In this case
possession is nine-tenths of the law enforcement
process, although it may be desirable to prosecute
the felon in a particular place. Some worlds have a
death penalty, others do not; the prisons of some are
notoriously tough or easy to escape from.

MINISTRY OF JUSTICE

TASK FORCES

Particularly serious offenders may become the subject
of a Ministry of Justice task force. This usually includes
a few front-line personnel but will primarily be made
up of experts such as accountants, forensic scientists
and experienced detectives who will co-opt local law
enforcement or military personnel as needed. Task
forces are often granted the use of a starship with
extensive forensics and investigative facilities. Ships are
armed for the arrest of fugitives who have a starship but
are intended to function as a mobile base providing topend facilities to the investigative team.
When not chasing a particular suspect, task forces
sometimes go ‘on the circuit’, travelling between less
technologically developed worlds to offer their services.
A visit can clear dozens of cold cases in a matter of
days, bringing TL14 forensics equipment to bear on
crimes that would never be solved using mid-technology
equipment. The effectiveness of these task forces is
such that many criminals are caught just by announcing
the arrival of the task force and seeing who bolts.
Another useful tactic is to offer a turn-yourself-in deal
for those facing very serious penalties on their current
world. In return for surrender and a confession the
criminal is guaranteed a fair trial and a more lenient
sentence. The Ministry of Justice is more likely to
cut a deal in return for information than a member
government, although a criminal who surrenders to the
Ministry of Justice hoping to stay out of the clutches of
SolSec will be disappointed. Requests for transfer of
custody are almost always granted if the surrendered
individual turns out to have committed politically
sensitive crimes.

90

SolSec and the Ministry of Justice sometimes put
together joint task forces. In this case SolSec is
looking for threats to the Confederation as a whole and
political wrongdoing, whilst the Ministry of Justice is
investigating ‘ordinary’ crime. Cooperation is generally
good but disputes over jurisdiction have occasionally
crippled major operations.

SALVAGE AND

PROSPECTING

Much of the Solomani Confederation’s law is
ultimately derived from old Terran legal systems,
notably maritime law as recognised by the United
Nations. There is no such thing as ‘international
waters’ in much of the Confederation, as a member
government has jurisdiction over its home solar
system and any others it possesses. Thus any salvage
or prospecting activity in a governed star system must
be licensed with the authorities. A basic short-term
license is cheap at Cr1000 plus Cr100 per day but
carries with it a duty to properly document finds, pay
a percentage of value to the licensing government
and to report any suspicious activity encountered. A
longer-term license has a much lower daily cost but
carries with it the same duties and responsibilities.
Ungoverned systems are protectorates of the
Confederation and subject to the same laws. Licenses
can be obtained through regional offices that are
typically found at major worlds. Any Class A or B
starport will have a salvage and prospecting license
service, along with claims registry and associated legal
matters. The chances of being caught in an ungoverned
system are lower than in one where a mainworld
government is patrolling its own territory but penalties
tend to be stiffer.
Member governments typically impound unlicensed
ships for a period and charge a release fee, which neatly
avoids the need for complex prosecutions over often
trivial activity. On the other hand, the Confederation
Navy or the Ministry of Justice is likely to prosecute and
may seize unlicensed ships. Crews are often declared to
be suspected of spying for a foreign power and handed
over to SolSec for another round of interrogations.
Minor salvage can usually be kept or sold, providing
the correct authorities get their percentage. Major finds
are subject to compulsory buy-out at a reasonably fair
rate. No matter who found it, a major mineral strike
or the wreck of a highly valuable ship belongs to the
government of local jurisdiction – or so the law says. In
practice, strikes are often worked for a time under the
radar, so to speak, and wrecks may be stripped before
they are declared. Despite stiff penalties a significant
‘grey salvage’ industry continues to thrive.

