COMMUNICATIONS

Naval couriers, typically of jump-4 capability, ply
constantly between military installations, major starports
and the holdings of politically significant member
governments. These carry a great deal of routine
information as well as classified data and instructions
or orders. This function was originally carried out by the
express boat network inherited from the Imperium but
has been replaced by armed naval couriers whose crews
hand-deliver data packs at each destination. Since this
information is not broadcast it cannot be intercepted
other than by attacking the courier or the handover
party. The handing-over of the data case is always done
with great formality; a little piece of navy ritual endlessly
repeated on starports all over the Confederation.
Occasionally a member government may be embargoed
or subjected to a withholding of information. In the
event of a major transgression this is a very public
denunciation by the Secretariat but often a member
government can be given a nudge in the right direction
by nothing more than the regular naval courier. In
this event the communications officer goes through
the usual formalities then formally refuses to hand
over the data case – which may be blank but retains
its symbolic value. This ritual has been compared to
the Confederation thumbing its nose at a member
government but indicates quiet disapproval, which can
be corrected without a major public incident. The most
minor version of this practice involves just one courier
refusing to hand over the data; the next one returns to
normal service once the point has been made. This is

sometimes enough, since the official data is of great
importance and the implications of withholding it is
still greater.
Whilst the official ‘internal’ data moves at jump4, routine communications travel more slowly. The
Confederation uses a system of subsidised and
contracted mail ships, which must be fitted with a
mail distribution system and secure cargo areas for
sensitive items. These plod along the mains or around
the clusters at one or perhaps two parsecs a week, with
the result that news travels quite slowly through the
freely available channels. However, many shipping lines
operate faster mail ships between key ports, in return for
fees from the governments served or the governments
may operate their own. These mail lines are similar to
the x-boat routes of the Imperium, although they are
served by private vessels that usually carry modest
amounts of cargo or a few passengers at a premium rate.
This system ensures that all citizens will get news
from far away sooner or later, whilst those governments
that want to arrange their own high-speed news and
mail service can do so. The benefits are usually
made available to the citizenry, although exactly
what information is released is carefully monitored.
Corporate bodies and member governments use this
system to stay ahead of the economic situation,
whilst information control is always useful when
something serious happens a few parsecs away.
The local government may be weeks ahead of its
citizens in knowing about a crisis, enabling it to make
preparations or warn its people as appropriate.

91

