C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

N

I

N

E

WORLDS OF THE

CONFEDERATION
The Solomani Confederation is characterised by old,
well-developed worlds in some regions, fading into an
open frontier to rimward. In general, worlds facing the
Imperial or Aslan borders tend to be heavily militarised,
whilst those in the safer areas are much less so. Many
worlds have unique cultures drawing on old-Earth
influences or the society of early colonies. Of course,
after hundreds of years the memories of old Earth are
inevitably distorted.

TERRA: THE SOLOMANI

HOMEWORLD
A867A69-F

The homeworld of the Solomani is Terra, once called
Earth, is in the Sol subsector of the Solomani Rim. The
former capital of the Solomani Confederation, Terra is
now under military occupation by the Imperium.
Terra is the third planet of the star Sol, a solitary yellow
G2 V star. Sol is used in the Imperial and Solomani
scientific systems as the basis for defining stellar mass,
radius and luminosity; Sol has a value of 1 in each of
these figures. The system has four rocky planets, four
gas giants and many smaller bodies. Jupiter, the largest
of the gas giants, is used as a benchmark to which
other giant planets are compared. A ‘Jupiter Mass’ is a
standard unit of measurement just like the mass of Sol.
The Sol system has several inhabited bodies, notably
Mars and the moons of Jupiter. In-system commercial
traffic is heavy, with multiple spaceports on most
inhabited bodies. It is common for ‘old worlds’ to
have settlements or economic assets elsewhere in
the system but Terra has far more than most. This is
due to the exploitation of the whole system before
the invention of the jump drive. Once cities were
established offworld, they tended to continue. Thus
although rebuilding of sections has taken place
throughout the long history of habitation, there are
landmark buildings on Mars or the moons of Saturn
which date back to the Interstellar Wars.

92

Currently, all traffic inbound to the Sol system is
required to make jump emergence close to Terra itself,
no matter where in the system it is destined, and to
receive clearance codes before proceeding elsewhere. A
vessel caught without a valid code is subject to seizure
by the Imperial authorities. This tough stance is actually
a relaxation of the original system, whereby all traffic
was required to emerge in a designated region well
short of the mainworld and make a lengthy transit to
the system’s main highport. This was intended to space
traffic out in terms both of time and location, enabling
inspections to be made of every single ship arriving.
Terra itself is 12,742 kilometres in diameter and has
a standard atmosphere. 70% of the surface is covered
by water, which divides the land into seven continents.
The climate overall is temperate, with extremes at the
poles and the equator. Like other bodies in its solar
system Terra is a comparator, with ‘Earth-like’ and
‘Terra-normal’ being common terms used to refer to
near-ideal planets.
Terra has one moon, Luna, which is tidally locked
to Terra. Luna is used as a naval base and research
laboratory. In the past it was heavily populated but
today it is home only to the installation staff and their
dependents. Luna was the first extra-terrestrial member
of the Terran Confederation.
Terra has a population of 40 billion with considerable
ethnic diversity. There are three giant starport
complexes, LaGrange in north eastern Australia,
Phoenix-Mesa in south western North America and
AECO in North Africa. Terra’s greatest city is Rio de
Janeiro; South America, the Caribbean and southern
Africa are the most urbanised and industrialised regions.
There are also extensive underwater cities. Climactic
and geological changes and mega-engineering projects
have altered the planet since Terrans went into space.
These notably include the warming of Siberia and
greening of the Sahara desert.

