HOME: THE NEW

SOLOMANI CAPITAL
A866999A-E

The fall of Terra to the Imperium forced the Solomani
to establish a new capital. Their choice was Home in
Aldebaran, some 30 parsecs from Terra. Home was selected
for its close physical similarity to Terra, its distance from the
Imperial border, its pure Solomani population and its central
location within the Confederation.
Home is located in Aldebaran. Its primary is Dril, a
solitary G2 V star nearly identical to Sol. Home is the
third planet from Dril, orbiting it at an average distance
of 152,000,000 kilometres with a period of 376.24
days. It rotates on its axis every 26 standard hours.
The system contains two gas giants and six terrestrial
planets in addition to Home. An inner asteroid belt close
to Home’s orbit makes for regular spectacular meteor
showers and poses occasional danger. A specialist
detachment of the world’s Home Forces takes care of
any threatening rocks.
Home is 12,422 kilometres in diameter with a standard
atmosphere. 60% of the world’s surface is covered by
water, dividing the surface into three continents and a
large archipelago with many island subcontinents. Home
has no moon, making its oceans fairly placid but its
night darker than those of Terra. The stars are brighter
by comparison and many constellations are similar to
those seen from Earth.
With less axial tilt than Earth, Home has less severe
seasonal variations than Terra. However, it has
experienced dramatic climactic shifts over hundreds
of thousands of years, possibly due to its lack of a
stabilising moon. These impeded the development of
large and complex animal life before humans arrived.
Today, imported Terran flora and fauna dominates
the world’s ecology. Attempts are being made to
create biological reservations for local species but the
likelihood is that Home will be entirely taken over by
invasive species before long. Home has a lower albedo
than Terra, resulting in a slightly higher average surface
temperature, despite Home being further from Dril than
Terra is from Sol. Most land masses have large interior
deserts that are uncomfortably hot but most of Home is
an agreeable place to live.
Home was settled during the Rule of Man by the
Sancterrists, a hardworking Terran agrarian religious
sect opposed to high technology. Content to maintain
a TL5-6 society, the Sancterrists barely noticed the
Long Night and were not unduly troubled by recontact.

94

During the 700s they found Solomani Party ideology
fit well with their own religious beliefs. Membership
in the Solomani Autonomous Region and then the
Confederation brought increased off-world trade and
investment. Society developed a more business-oriented
elite that was willing to accept controlled change and
technical development, at least around the starport and
capital city.
Home still retained its sleepy agricultural character
until 1000. As the Solomani Rim War turned in the
Imperium’s favour, important citizens and industrial
plants were evacuated from threatened front-line
worlds. Home received hundreds of thousands of
these evacuees, including key government and military
families and recuperating soldiers. As the war came
to an end, the planet’s pleasant character, Earth-like
conditions and central strategic location made it a
natural choice for a new Confederation capital.
The last century has seen rapid economic development,
some of it perhaps too rapid. The population of 1.1
billion includes many transitory inhabitants and those
living in orbit. Home is the headquarters of the Solomani
Party, SolSec and the Armed Forces and, as a result,
security levels can be oppressive in major centres. The
majority of the population are employed in government
bureaucracies or interstellar businesses, although there
are also extensive agricultural and industrial sectors.
There are still regions, especially near deserts and in
the mountains, that retain their pastoral character and
their traditional religious beliefs and some of these
communities still try to live at TL5-6. They have drifted
toward more extreme interpretations of their original
faith and can be unwelcoming to outsiders.
The capital, First City, is the site of the Secretariat’s
General Assembly and the architectural oddity of SolSec
Central, popularly known as the Octopus. High above
them, the Solomani High Council meets in secure
chambers inside Resolution, Home’s hive-like orbital
highport. Resolution was carved from an asteroid that
was pushed into orbit; ‘Wolfe’s Rock’ as it is popularly
known is also home to Ivan Wolfe Naval Base and
the adjacent Albadawi Naval Academy. It has a large
Confederation Marines garrison.
Home is cosmopolitan, with humans of many different
colours, ethnic backgrounds and a Babel of accents
from all sectors of the Confederation. However, with the
exception of some Aslan and Hive Federation embassies
and trade missions, there is a near-total absence of
permanent non-Solomani inhabitants. Restrictive
immigration and security policies ensure only Solomani
may settle or work on Home.

