JINGLESWELT: THE FIRST
GREAT FORTRESS
B574AB8-D

Located in the Staai subsector of the Dark Nebula,
Jingleswelt orbits Jingleswelt Primary, an M1 (red) main
sequence star that has 10 other terrestrial planets and
four gas giants. The system was colonised early in the
human push into the Dark Nebula and ultimately ended
up right on the border with the Aslan Hierate. This was
in no small part due to its powerful fortifications.
Jingleswelt was not a garden world but habitable enough
to be easy to colonise. Most of the land is concentrated
into a single supercontinent, which is very dry in the
interior. Initial settlement mainly took place along the
western seaboard, with secondary hubs elsewhere. As
the situation elsewhere in the Dark Nebula worsened,
refugees poured into Jingleswelt and caused rapid
expansion of these minor colonies. With resources
stretched very thin these new cities were rough-andready, contrasting with the more carefully planned
settlements of the western seaboard. Even today the
layout of the eastern cities is suboptimal, as generations
of new building followed the same street plans.

Segments of the cities were completely cleared and
rebuilt on a more logical pattern, creating a patchwork
of well-laid-out and chaotic districts.
One reason for Jingleswelt’s popularity as a refugee
destination was its defence network. This was initially
little more than a ring of military bases around the
capital, mounting anti-ship missiles in groundlaunch platforms. Underfunded and incomplete, the
Brachmann Ring – as the chain of forts was known
– was still an effective deterrent. It was gradually
expanded and strengthened, then augmented by orbital
defences and additional installations covering the rest
of the planetary surface.
Successive governments became almost obsessed with
their planetary defences, to the point where ‘Fortress
Jingleswelt’ became something of a tourist attraction.
Even today, it is a stop on some of the Great Tours; wellestablished routes for wealthy tourists to see the sights
of the Confederation. The Museum of Planetary Defence
has an enormous hotel complex that always has a few
rich or famous people in residence. Naturally, when the
Twelve Great Forts were declared, Jingleswelt made its
case to be recognised as the earliest to be established

95

