Meson Guns and Planetary Defence

The Terrans invented the meson gun late in the Interstellar Wars period and used it win decisive
victories against the Vilani Empire. Although the Imperium itself is presently more advanced in meson
gun technology than the Confederation, especially in the production of battlefield and turret-sized
weapons, large meson accelerators are a major element of Solomani weaponry. Especially important
are the deep meson gun installations that the Solomani Home Forces operate to protect crucial border
worlds and major worlds. These are a central feature of many TL10+ planetary defences.
Meson beams can pass through any form of matter so burying the weapon and its support facilities
deep below a world’s surface creates a weapon system virtually immune to conventional attack. Only
another meson accelerator can effectively engage such deep meson guns and planetary weapons
can be built with greater size and range than shipboard installations. Since a meson gun has no
firing signature, targeting it is impossible unless its coordinates are known. Discovering details of
the existence, firepower and location of deep meson gun sites on border and strategic worlds in the
Solomani Confederation is a primary goal of Imperial military espionage operations. Information
relating to their construction is tightly controlled and carefully policed by SolSec.
Deep site meson weapons have two weak points. Aiming a meson gun relies on a network of external
sites. These will be scattered across the planet, in orbit and sometimes even on moons, so completely
destroying these networks is nearly impossible. However, a sustained bombardment can eradicate the
large antennae needed to target spacecraft in high orbit, dramatically reducing the mesons weapons’
range. Since the mobile fire control equipment that is needed for hitting planetary targets can fit
in a truck or APC, a deep meson gun will be a continuing threat to any planetary invasion until all
opposition is neutralised.
Meson guns require tremendous power, 500 to 1,000 gigawatts for a typical installation equivalent
to a spinal mount. Standard imperial doctrine is to use neutrino sensors or intelligence information
to locate and destroy the large fusion reactors that provide this power. While a meson gun site may
draw power from multiple stations in a planetary grid as well specialised buried facilities, a sustained
bombardment can cut it off from its energy source.
To counter this, Solomani planetary defence installations built since the Solomani Rim War have
begun to install deep underground geothermal core taps feeding high-energy capacitor arrays
(similar to those used in jump drives). These power sources eliminate the neutrino signature of the
emplacement but are less powerful and more expensive to construct than fusion reactors. The need to
recharge the capacitors limits this emergency rate of fire to one shot every few hours or requires the
use of smaller installation equivalent to bay-size weapons. This limits the ability of the meson gun as
a factor in a fast-moving space battle but significantly complicates matters for planetary sieges and
ongoing invasions.
A related development used on a few TL13–14 worlds with deep oceans is the space defence
submarine. This is a large nuclear submarine with a single bay weapon-sized meson gun installation,
which patrols in the deep ocean or under a planetary ice cap. Although firepower is limited, mobile
meson gun submarines are harder to track with neutrino sensors than static installations. Engaging
them may require sending grav armour or starships to operate underwater.

96

