and therefore the ‘First Great Fort’. This status is
disputed, since Jingleswelt’s claim goes back to the
earliest construction of its defences, which were hardly
great at the time.
None of the other Great Forts are tourist destinations;
most are restricted-access sites protecting important
worlds or installations. The Twelve Great Forts were
declared in 1022, in what was mainly a propaganda
exercise intended to demonstrate the resilience of
the Confederation. Essentially the most powerful
fortifications were chosen as showcases of Confederation
military might, although the criteria were strict.
Dispersed fortifications protecting an entire world
were not counted; a Great Fort had to be a region of
a planet with particularly dense military installations.
Not coincidentally, this facilitated maps, charts and
interactive video tours, which contain misleading
information but are overall accurate and – more
importantly – impressive.
Jingleswelt built deep-site meson guns as soon as the
technology became available but did not construct
submarines for use as mobile mounts. Since its cities
were located on a supercontinent, heavy-duty rail
transport using a triple-rail system on a very wide gauge
was the primary means of moving large cargoes. A
number of mobile aerospace defence missile systems
were already concealed among the commercial trains; it
was inevitable that Jingleswelt would attempt to build a
mobile meson gun mounted on a train. According to the
Museum of Planetary Defence, several such weapons are
now in service but there is real doubt about whether a
functional weapon was ever deployed.
Society on Jingleswelt is heavily militarised, with the
commander-in-chief of the world’s Home Forces acting
as head of state. The world acts as a hub for crossborder commerce and relations with most nearby Aslan
clans are cool but polite. Despite strict controls on
private ownership of weaponry, members of the Home
Forces Volunteer Reserve are permitted to keep their
issued small arms and equipment in their homes.
On the rare occasions Aslan ihatei have tried to raid
Jingleswelt they have been repelled with ease.

ELATION: RIMWARD

BORDER WORLD
B852668-7

Elation lies on the very rimward frontier of the Solomani
Confederation, in the Taurea subsector of Aldebaran.
The system contains seven other terrestrial planets and
a gas giant, none of which are known to have permanent

settlements. Immediately to rimward is a two-parsec
gap, creating a natural border; the nearest jump-2
crossings are in the Marrakesh and Theta Aurigae
subsectors. It is thus likely that when the border is
pushed out it will be to these subsectors and not Taurea.
If so, Elation will remain a backwater frontier world for
some time to come.
The world itself is tidally locked, with a thin atmosphere
and little water. A small city houses almost the entire
population, located in the twilight zone between the
‘bright’ and ‘cold’ faces of Elation. The temperature
difference means that a constant wind blows from
dark to light, occasionally gusting strongly enough to
make conditions hazardous. The city is surrounded by
industrial farms that are domed to protect them from
wind-borne dust, whilst the settlement is protected by a
natural windbreak formed by rugged cliffs.
Elation has a minimal industrial base and can support
a local TL7, although a few more advanced items are
available. Its sole industry is mining, with temporary
camps dotted about both faces of the planet. Mining
is carried out without much regard to environmental
damage, with open-cast pits and their associated
spoil heaps abandoned when a deposit is played out.
The prevailing cold-to-warm winds have sculped the
spoil heaps in some places, creating an elongated
dune shape with a ‘tail’ of deposited dust for many
kilometres downwind.
Elation is a possession of the Solomani Confederation
but not a member. Like many other undeveloped
worlds it has no government of its own and is instead
administered by a governor based on nearby Weinberg. A
small staff at Elation’s one city deals with matters such
as claims registry and shipping licenses and a private
security force keeps order. Those accused of major
crimes are usually shipped to Weinberg in a secure low
berth and tried there, whilst minor offences are normally
punished by enforced work on behalf of the community.
Elation’s Class B starport was constructed in
anticipation of much greater economic importance. The
discovery of new mineral deposits prompted interest
from some of the larger mining concerns and a plan to
expand the port was rushed through. As a result Elation
has a half-built highport that may never be finished.
The section that was completed was originally of a
good standard but is run-down now and in need of an
overhaul. It is rather uninviting, which gives Travellers a
poor impression of what conditions are like planetside.
In fact, quality of life is moderately good on Elation but
not sufficiently so to justify the world’s name.

97

