C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

E

N

HIGH GUARD: SOLOMANI

The Solomani people developed their own traditions
and preferences regarding starships during their early
history and these later melded into the Imperial culture.
However, the Solomani have always resisted Vilani and
other Imperial influences, so did not adopt the custom
of jump dimming. This is very much a ‘Vilani-Imperial’
custom, dating back to a time when power plants were
only just adequate to operate the jump drive.
Other preferences have always been a feature of
Solomani spacefaring, although they might have been
overlaid during the years of Imperial membership. In
some regions these habits never went away; in others
they have been re-implemented since secession. Most
noticeable is the presence of dedicated stewards
aboard warships. In the Imperium, food preparation is
a general-crew task and whilst experts might exist there
are no specialist crewmembers. The Solomani, on the
other hand, consider well-prepared food to be essential
to morale. Preserved rations can be heated up by an
unskilled rating but wherever possible properly trained
chefs will be included in a crew. The Confederation Navy
has elevated cooking under difficult conditions to an art
form and can usually manage to put good food in front
of its crewmembers no matter what else is going on.
Solomani vessels often have a ‘ship’s cat’ – which
might be some entirely different kind of animal or even
a robot. These creatures are kept aboard ostensibly to
deal with vermin and might occasionally make a kill.
In reality however it is simply a matter of tradition – a
ship should have a ship’s cat that lives in the galley
and makes an adorable nuisance of itself. An admiral’s
review would not be complete without the Officer
of the Watch having to deal with an RCID. ‘RCID’ is
navy shorthand for Random Cat-Induced Disturbance
and has taken on a wide meaning. In this context an
RCID is any unexpected and alarming but ultimately
harmless occurrence.
Security tends to be a priority aboard Solomani ships.
Mutinies and hijackings are no more likely in the
Confederation than anywhere else but considerable
attention is paid to making ships difficult to take control
of. Much of this is down to design philosophy; passenger
areas are separated from sensitive control spaces, with
access heavily restricted, and the ship’s systems are
typically subject to more lock-outs.

98

However, SolSec has infiltrated most manufacturers
of shipboard security and monitoring systems in the
Solomani Rim. Its operatives have access to backdoor
programs and devices that can often bypass and access
standard starship security. SolSec agents receive DM+4
when hacking such systems. Thanks to these back
doors, a competent SolSec undercover agent who is
posing as a passenger or junior crewman will be able
to quickly penetrate any commercial starship’s security
systems and may know more about what is going on
aboard than the ship’s own officers. A penetrated
security system will ignore the agent’s movements when
they want it to and may feed information to their own
personal computer. Those services and agencies that
know about this hole in their security are constantly
trying to find and eliminate the loopholes.

SOCIAL STANDARDS

As in other areas of society, pure-blood Solomani are
likely to be found in the upper echelons of any starship
crew. Ordinary crew will normally be pure Solomani or
mixed blood human. Neo-chimps may sometimes be
found in jobs like mechanic or cargo hand. Dolphins
rarely serve aboard ships due to life support issues but
do have a reputation as good pilots.
There are no official restrictions on passage or service
based upon race but some starship operators can be
highly racist. This is sometimes due to personal beliefs
but often is a form of second-hand racism. Fear that
snobbish wealthy individuals might not want to share
the VIP lounge with non-Solomani can cause some
shipowners to implement racist policies ‘just in case’.
Non-Solomani who buy high passage on liners travelling
on main routes between Class A and B ports are unlikely
to face overt discrimination. The larger shipping lines
tend to have policies that require officers and crew to
maintain a professional demeanour when dealing with
foreigners, ensuring that trade and tourist Credits flow
into the Confederation. Operators of small ships tend to
be glad to fill their cabins.
Discrimination is more likely on privately owned
intermediate lines or single-ship liner companies where
the owners have extreme views but even then it is
typically of a passive nature. A non-Solomani Traveller
might find only middle passage tickets are available for

