some vaguely described reason. Since high passage
ticketholders have more access to the crew and
possibly secure parts of the ship, suspicion of outsiders
might be another reason why non-Solomani cannot
obtain high passage unless accompanied by a highstatus pureblood Solomani.

ADDITIONAL SECURITY

MEASURES

Generally speaking, normal security systems and a
sensible design philosophy are sufficient to protect any
vessel. However, some shipyards incorporate additional
security features into their designs.
Enhanced Security: Enhanced security is a catch-all
term for a package of measures running all through
the ship. Some are electronic, such as additional
cameras, scanners and locks, and take up little room.
However, partitions and fixtures are a little stronger
than average, with additional internal security
bulkheads. A mix of electronic and mechanical
devices are used to prevent ‘backdoor’ methods being
used to bypass the security system.
An enhanced security system takes up 2% of a vessel’s
hull at a cost of MCr0.2 per ton. It imposes a DM-1 on
all attempts to overcome the vessel’s security system.
Secure Accommodation: Secure accommodation focuses
on staterooms and common areas used by passengers.
Stateroom walls and doors are stronger, with a solid
bulkhead around the secured area. This is not sufficient
to provide protection against ship-to-ship weapons
fire but does resist cutting attempts and personal
weapons better than standard construction. Enhanced
locking devices are also in place, along with improved
surveillance equipment. Most systems also include
measures such as the ability to dump sedative gas into
the secured areas’ ventilation system.
A secure accommodation suite consumes space equal
to 10% of the tonnage contained within it, at a cost of
MCr0.1 per ton. It imposes DM-1 on attempts to defeat
the security of the accommodation area, which stacks
with the modifier for enhanced security.

ACCOMMODATION

VARIANTS

Most Confederation ships use standard staterooms
of varying types plus common space to create an
acceptable passenger experience but those wishing to
impress may install a specialist fitment.

VIP Suite: A VIP suite is intended for the use of
a single passenger plus a suitable entourage. It
consists of a luxury stateroom plus a private lounge
and three other stateroom-equivalent spaces. These
can be set up as accommodation, offices, additional
working or recreation space, a wine cellar or any
other combination of three four-ton chambers. On
many ships a steward lives in one of the cabins and
is permanently – and exclusively – on-call for the
VIP. Some naval vessels have one or more VIP suites
as accommodation for the captain or an admiral and
ships used by the Secretariat or upper echelons of
SolSec typically have several such suites. A VIP suite
consumes 28 tons at a cost of MCr2.5. Operators
with one or more VIP suites aboard their ship can
charge whatever the market will stand for use of one
or may offer it at a more reasonable rate as part of
a scheme to tempt more high passengers. Typically
this takes the form of a sort of lottery – everyone
buying a high passage ticket gets a chance to win
use of the VIP suite, assigned randomly. A ship
doing something like this can sell high passage at
the normal rate for four cabins – assuming all are
configured for passengers – and gains DM+1 to find
high passengers.
High Passage Block: A high passage block is a
standardised, self-contained component. It consists
of six high staterooms plus a standard cabin (which
is usually occupied by a steward or used as a shop
or office) plus a generous common space for the
exclusive use of the passengers within. All of this
is surrounded by a heavy bulkhead and has its own
independent life support system. The whole block
consumes 60 tons and costs MCr6. It is luxuriously
appointed and confers DM+1 to find high passengers.
Steerage Block: Steerage is the lowest form of
passage that does not actually involve being frozen.
A steerage block consists of tiny sleeping cubicles
for up to 24 people plus a small general-purpose
‘exercise and recreation’ space, a minimal galley
and a borderline inadequate set of freshers. The
block consumes four tons plus 1.5 tons per person
to be accommodated, thus ranging from 5.5 to 40
tons, at a cost of MCr0.1 per ton. Steerage passage
is generally equivalent to basic passage as noted
in the Traveller Core Rulebook, but prices can vary
considerably. Commonly a middle passage ticket can
be exchanged for steerage passage for four people or
possibly as many as six if the ship is not full and the
passenger is persuasive.

99

