Torpedo Grapple, Firmpoint: This device takes up a
single firmpoint and carries two torpedoes on a nonreloadable mount. Both can be launched together or
a single weapon can be delivered. The grapple itself
does not affect streamlining but a ship with torpedoes
in place can only be considered at best partially
streamlined. Any kind of torpedo can be carried on a
grapple. A firmpoint grapple costs MCr0.1 and does not
need to be replaced after use but cannot be reloaded
in flight. Torpedoes must be purchased at standard
prices – Cr150000 per standard torpedo and more for
specialist types.
Torpedo Grapple, Hardpoint: A larger torpedo grapple
can be mounted on a single hardpoint, carrying four
torpedoes on a non-reloadable mount. A grapple with
torpedoes aboard reduces streamlined ships to a
partially streamlined state. Torpedoes can be launched
singly or in pairs. The mount costs MCr0.25 and,
like the firmpoint grapple, consumes negligible space
inside the ship.
Missile Container/Launcher (TL9): Instead of reloadable
turret-mounted launchers, missiles can be carried in
a firmpoint or hardpoint-mounted container/launcher.
This is a disposable lightweight box containing
all the connections and support systems required
to maintain a missile in ready-to-fire condition.
Container-launchers can be purchased in single, dual
or quad configurations, all of which consume a single
hardpoint. A single or dual container-launcher can
be mounted on a firmpoint. Missiles can be launched
in any combination, creating a ‘surge’ capability that
can overwhelm the defences of a major warship. Cost
is MCr0.5 plus MCr0.1 per missile to be carried.
Missiles can be replaced at the cost of the weapon
plus MCr0.1.
Heavy Missile (TL12): Missiles are normally launched
from a turret, barbette or bay but larger weapons are
available as one-shot container/launchers. These may

be embedded in the hull of ship or carried externally;
either way reloading the weapon must take place in
a port, hangar or base. Heavy missiles are referred to
as ‘one-shot ship killers’ although they are unlikely
to destroy a large vessel. A heavy missile container/
launcher consumes two hardpoints plus five tons
inside the ship. It can carry a single heavy missile.
Installation costs MCr2; reloading costs MCr0.25 plus
the price of the missile.
Combination Missile/Torpedo Launcher: The
Confederation Navy has been trying for years to create
an effective launching system that can take missiles
or torpedoes as required. This turret-sized system is as
close as it has come to a workable design, although it
is clumsy and prone to loading failures. A combination
launcher fits in a standard turret mount – single, dual
or triple – but can only have one type of ammunition
ready in each tube. It takes one round to remove
ordnance and send it back to the magazine and one
round to load a new weapon into the launcher. For this
reason, combination launchers are often carried empty
and loaded at the beginning of an engagement when it
begins to become clear what ordnance will be needed.
A combination launcher needs dedicated magazine
space. One ton of magazine space holds three
torpedoes or 12 missiles, so a triple turret with two
tons of magazine space could carry one torpedo reload
for all three tubes plus four missile reloads for all
three. Ordnance can be mixed in a magazine; a one-ton
magazine could hold two torpedoes and four missiles.
Apart from the possibility of an ammunition hoist
failure, the system’s other drawback is that it uses
non-standard ordnance. Torpedoes and missiles cost
25% more than standard and will not fit in a standard
launcher. Likewise, standard weapons will not fit in
a combination launch system. A combination launch
system costs MCr2 and uses no power. It takes up one
ton in addition to the normal turret allocation, plus
magazine space.

Heavy Missile
Weapon

TL

Thrust

Damage

Cost

Traits

Advanced

15

15

12D

MCr1.5

Smart

Long-Range

12

15

6D

MCr1

Smart

Nuclear

12

15

15D

MCr2.5

Radiation, Smart

Standard

12

10

8D

MCr0.75

Smart

101

