8

2

6

1

3

10

DECK 2

5
4

11

6
7
DECK 1

LEGEND
1. Bridge
2. Sensors
3. Power plant
4. M-drive
5. Staterooms
6. Common areas
7. Cargo hold
8. Dual turret
10. J-drive
11. Airlock

The standard SC-3 is essentially a jump-3 drive and fuel tanks with a bridge attached. Between them
lies crew accommodation, consisting of three staterooms with a common area where a fourth might
lie. Slightly greater space is created by not having a partition between the common area and main
access corridor. This can lead to incidents where a crewmember moving quickly encounters spill over
from the recreation area.
The hull has a deep belly, creating a small lower deck taken up entirely by the cargo area. In the
standard SC-3A this is a simple hold but the 3C variant includes a mail distribution system, which
takes up 10 tons of this area and adds MCr20 to purchase price of the ship. Mountings are installed
as standard, allowing a 3A to be converted to a 3C in a matter of hours. The SC-3B variant fits a
steerage passenger block capable of holding transporting six people into the cargo area, using the
rest of the space for baggage and a tiny common area. This adds MCr2.6 to the purchase price of
the ship. Such vessels transport people, small packages and information between the ports of the
Confederation in rapid but wearying discomfort.
Apart from drive performance, the only luxuries aboard an SC-3 are the computer and sensor fit.
These allow the vessel to carry out a variety of roles, making it unnecessary to build multiple ships but
pushing individual costs up. Some clients request a reduced sensor and computer fit, reducing cost
by MCr3. It is an open secret that many SC-3s are operated by SolSec, making use of the vessel’s
good sensor and processing capability to obtain intelligence whilst posing as a normal courier.
The SC-3 is a bare-bones utilitarian design in most ways. However, it is not cheap. The choice of
three parsec jump range makes the SC-3 far more expensive than an Imperial Scout/Courier, which is
also available in Solomani Confederation space.

107

