Hull form is a dome shape with projections fore and aft on the centreline. This does lead to
the possibly unkind nickname of ‘Space Tortoises’, which also makes fun of the vessel’s low
jump capability. However, the Thalassa is a very flexible design. Its dedicated fuel tankage
is sufficient for one jump-1 and four weeks of operation but if it is necessary to cross to a
different main or cluster – or just to have fuel in reserve for a quick getaway – the fuel/cargo
module can be filled. This provides for another jump and around five weeks of additional
operating time. The module can carry fuel or cargo; it must be used for one or the other
although it can be only partially filled. In normal operation this module provides 42 tons of
additional cargo space.
The central ‘strip’ of the hull is two decks high. On the top deck are the bridge and drive
spaces, with eight crew cabins and a four ton common area between. The lower deck of the
central strip houses 12 passenger cabins plus 12 tons of common space towards its fore
end. The twin steerage blocks lie aft and along the flanks of the passenger area, with access
heavily restricted. The remainder of the domed part of the hull is given over to cargo space
and the fuel/cargo module.
The Thalassa-class is normally delivered with two standard defence turrets, mounting a pair of
pulse lasers and a sandcaster, with all weapons mounted on the dorsal surface of the vessel.
Thalassas can be fitted out in a variety of configurations. Some lack the fuel/cargo module,
gaining 44 tons of dedicated cargo space and others delete the steerage blocks to gain 88
tons of cargo capacity. The lower-deck passenger space can also be fitted out as cargo hold
for an additional 60 tons. One or both steerage modules can also be replaced with a bulk
low-berth chamber containing 72 low berths and a medical bay. Power for this facility is
factored into the vessel’s power plant design.
A Thalassa small transport that retains the fuel/cargo option and can therefore go almost
anywhere in the Confederation – eventually – will thus typically be encountered in one of the
following configurations:

Configuration
Bulk Passenger
Freightliner
Bulk Cargo
Low Passenger
Low/Bulk Passenger

High/Mid
Passenger Cabins
12
12
0
12
12

Steerage
Passengers
48
0
0
0
24

Cargo with
Jump-1
106
194
254
106
106

Cargo with
Jump-1 x2
64
152
212
64
64

Low Berths
0
0
0
144
72

Other variants may have considerably different capabilities. The modular nature of the
compartments allows one area to be repurposed without affecting others. Thus those travelling
aboard on a supposed bulk passenger variant might be unaware that one of the steerage blocks
in fact houses an intelligence-gathering team. One common aftermarket conversion is to
remove the passenger accommodation and replace it with equipment for prospecting or smallscale mining. It is thus not wise to make assumptions about a Space Tortoise.

109

