The Saxby class is named for districts of cities on the owning world, although many simply receive
number designations instead. The class is designed around the capability to deliver a pair of ‘one-shot
ship-killer’ heavy missiles, which are carried in external container/launchers. Secondary armament
is adequate for patrol work but these boats are designed to attack en masse, ideally screened by
fighters, then flee to a base for re-arming.
Hull form is a ‘staggered wedge’, narrow at the fore end of the ship where the bridge is located.
The main hull section containing living spaces and most general machinery, is wider, whilst the aft
segment is wider still. This houses the drives near the centreline with two 50-ton-capacity hangars
on each side. The addition of the hangars is controversial but in order to create a craft large enough
to carry a pair of heavy missiles a 600-ton hull was required. Even with the addition of heavy armour
it was possible to provide for long-duration patrols, especially if the ‘upgrade tonnage’ is set up as
additional crew recreation spaces.
Thus a fully equipped Saxby can carry a flight of four 25-ton light fighters or two fighters and two
utility boats. This permits a force to deploy its own fighter screen, which can be useful but is more
commonly used to create a patrol vessel with greater endurance. If half of each hangar is converted
into additional living space, fuel tanks and stowage a Saxby can make long outsystem patrols carrying
a pair of utility boats and a boarding party to crew them. When used in this role the heavy anti-ship
missiles are sometimes left at base and overall this is not an efficient use of the vessel. However, the
theory goes that in peacetime Saxbys can assist with system patrol and if war threatens they can be
concentrated into strike squadrons.
The missile container-launchers are carried on the flanks, ahead of the widest section of the hull,
whilst the two laser/defence turrets are mounted dorsal and ventral on the main hull.

113

