C E N T R A L

X

S U P P L Y

SOLOMANI

The people of the Solomani Confederation share
an identical body type and a great deal of common
history with those of the Imperium. Not surprisingly,
much of the equipment in use in the Confederation is
functionally similar to the Imperial equivalent. There
does tend to be more design variation in Solomani
items but differences between devices intended to
fulfil the same function are mostly cosmetic. Most
items are compatible with Imperial standards, allowing
cross-border exports or use of equipment obtained
from the Imperium by whatever means.
Military equipment is produced at TL12–14 for the
most part. TL12 is widely available, allowing local
maintenance and cheaper purchases, so tends to be
used by Home Forces units and some elements of
the Confederation armed forces. Equipment for the
Confederation Navy are almost universally built at
TL14, with many Home Forces units constructed at
TL12. A handful of Confederation worlds, although still
officially rated at TL14, can produce limited amounts
of TL15 equipment and a handful of TL15 designs
have begun to appear. These are prototypes and earlyproduction vessels using mostly TL14 components.
Similar, a few TL15 consumer and military items are
becoming available but these are hard to find on the
open market.

CURRENCY

The Solomani Confederation uses a similar monetary
and banking system to the Imperium. Its currency
has the same name but is slightly different in design.
The Imperial Credit is usually accepted within the

116

C A T A L O G U E

Confederation but there are some places where it will
be rejected on general principle. Conversion between
the two is easy at most major starports, although
sometimes tariffs are placed on Imperial money.
The Confederation Credit is used throughout the
Confederation and generally referred to as see-see,
or just a Credit. Small transactions can be done in
cash using coins, notes and high-value plaques, which
contain micro-circuitry to prevent counterfeiting. Many
worlds produce their own Credits, subject to strict
rules about the amounts they can create. As a result
there are many designs of see-see. Most celebrate
triumphs in the long heritage of the Solomani people,
or feature notable individuals.
Collectors will pay very well for small-run notes and
coins that have long ago passed out of circulation
and occasionally counterfeit ‘old money’ appears.
The slang term for a bogus note is a ‘Boney’ or
‘Boneyphony’ after a notorious scam in which a stash
of ancient currency allegedly produced during the
reign of Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte of Old Earth
flooded the low-end collector markets. A surprisingly
large number of people fell for this caper, although it
was short-lived.

PERSONAL WEAPONS
AND MILITARY SMALL

ARMS

Personal weaponry is much the same in the
Confederation as elsewhere, although there are
preferences for different weapons.

