ROBOTS

The Solomani Confederation is generally more accepting of robotic technology than the Imperium. In Terran
culture, semi-autonomous robots appeared at roughly the same time as interstellar travel, resulting in a wide
divergence of attitude toward intelligent machines among different Terran-descended communities throughout the
Solomani Sphere. On some worlds, robots are outlawed or distrusted, especially where the Society for Sovereignty
of Man over Machine is active. The society vigorously opposes any advanced A.I. research that might lead to
independent machine intelligence.
Solomani have the same range of robots as the Imperium but tend to make more use of large vehicle-sized robotic
machines such as robot construction equipment. The armed forces routinely deploy robotic ammunition carriers,
which reload standard magazines passed to them and some robotic support platforms. These are not autonomous
but will follow the directions of a designated soldier with limited initiative.

A11/58231

CONFEDERATION ARMY
AMMOBOT

An ammobot is built on a low tracked chassis, with an
ammunition hopper on the back, reloading station in the
centre and a magazine dispenser at the front and each
side. The hopper holds a single ammunition type and
a single magazine type can be accommodated. Usually
this is to fit the standard 4mm gauss rifle used by most
Confederation Army formations, although ammobots can be
quickly reconfigured to operate with other weapons. Some
variant types can dispense more than one ammunition type
but these are more likely to be in use with SolSec or navy
personnel than the army.
The ammobot is lightly armoured and quite tough. It is
capable of automatically moving from a unit’s position to
a supply dump and back again without getting stuck or
colliding with anything but that is about the limit of its
capabilities. The reloading mechanism holds 20 magazines.
As these are taken by soldiers, empty ones can be inserted
through a slot in the top of the mechanism. Those too dented
for safe use are spat out of another slot as they pass through
the mechanism, generally eliciting jeers and humorous
insults in non-critical situations. The ammunition hopper
holds 24,000 rounds of gauss rifle ammunition, sufficient to
reload 300 magazines and their internal batteries are also
charged if they remain in the robot for any length of time.
When using larger calibres, such as advanced combat rifle
ammunition, capacity is greatly reduced.
Ammobots are widely used in civilian life, repurposed as
dispensers of all manner of useful items. A popular vid show of
recent years has focussed on modifying robots and devices; its
all-time highest rated episode featured the on-the-go barbecue
devised by an independent survey and exploration crew,
enabling them to feed samples of local plant and animal life
into the ‘bot and enjoy a tasty chargrilled meal on the march.

ROBOT

HITS
SPEED
20
6m
SKILLS
None
ATTACKS
None
TRAITS
Armour (+4)
PROGRAMMING Basic
Ammobot

120

TL
12

COST
Cr62000

