C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

E

L

E

V

E

N

SOLOMANI TRAVELLERS
The rules presented in this chapter will create Travellers
from the Solomani Confederation or a world that has a
similar culture. Non-Solomani humans and even some
aliens who come from a Confederation world can use
this system, whereas those from other cultures – such as
a pure-blood Solomani from an Imperial world – cannot.
Unless stated otherwise, the usual Traveller creation
rules from the Traveller Core Rulebook apply to
Solomani Travellers. Where necessary the term ‘racial
Solomani’ will distinguish Travellers belonging to
the Solomani race as opposed to anyone from the
Solomani Confederation.

PLAYING A SOLOMANI
There are some aspects of Solomani society that are
questionable or downright unpleasant. There is racism
and discrimination in Solomani society but they are
not ‘Space Nazis’ or ‘Interstellar Warriors of the Soviet
People’. Whether such a society could survive in the
long run is an open question but it would certainly be
uncomfortable to roleplay such people.

The foremost aspects of Solomani culture come not from
contempt for other races but from pride in their own.
Solomani are taught from a young age that they have
enormous potential and what might be termed the
‘capacity to succeed’. This is referred to as the Call to
Greatness by many Solomani philosophers. It is not that
other races are inferior as such, just that the Solomani
have the potential and perhaps the destiny to be extraspecial. The distinction is subtle but significant.
A good analogy is a child who is encouraged and
supported when they want to try sport, music or
whatever their field of endeavour may be. That child
is more likely to enter and try to win a contest than
one who has never been encouraged. The child’s
belief they can win might be far greater than their
actual talent but a mediocre tryer will often do better
than a talented but unsure rival. For the Solomani
people, simply being Solomani is encouragement and
confirmation they can succeed.

Solomani people thus tend to be a bit full of
themselves, taking perhaps an excessive pride in their
race’s achievements. Many can be compared to fans of
a successful sporting team, raving about how ‘we’ won
the game or ‘we’ are better than our rivals, despite them
ahead on points right now. Such people are prone to
group narcissism and more likely to be negative towards
non-Solomani than those who have actually succeeded
at something in their own right.
Attitudes to SolSec and security services in general can
vary. Those who have had bad experiences tend to be
fearful and many of those who have not will assume
a negative attitude towards SolSec indicates a guilty
secret. On the other hand, there are many who admire
and respect SolSec for the work they do in keeping
the Imperials from meddling in Solomani affairs. Most
simply consider SolSec a fact of life – mostly positive,
sometimes a bit scary, but necessary and certainly better
than letting agenda-pushing crazies blow up the starport.
Attitudes to non-Solomani humans and aliens can be
condescending and patronising but hostility is more
likely to be political than racial. The two are much
the same thing with some outsiders – the Vegans, for
example – but dislike tends to stem from historical
clashes rather than an idea that aliens are somehow
intrinsically bad. Again, this is a subtle distinction
since it can still lead to racist or discriminatory policies.
The situation can be compared to seeing a person
dressed in the clothing worn by a street gang with a
bad reputation. In this case the alien’s race rather than
their clothing causes the Solomani to identify them
with a group that has harmed Solomani people before.
Most Solomani know this is unfair but ill-feeling over
past incidents may still cause them to react badly upon
seeing a member of that group.
There is a dark side to this and in some parts of the
Confederation ‘we’re the best’ is replaced by ‘everyone
else is inadequate, stupid or just plain bad’ but this is
by no means a universal sentiment. Haters are no more
common in the Confederation than anywhere else –
and just as likely to be despised by more enlightened
individuals – but the Solomani way of thinking does
lend itself to the creation of oppressive regimes where
leaders are inclined that way.

123

