Overall, the typical Solomani can be a little overbearing
around non-Solomani, since they tend to assume a
leadership role whether this is appropriate or not.
They are proud of their race’s achievements and feel
there is something that makes them special in their
Solomani blood. At the same time they are – in general
– accepting of other cultures and respectful towards
worthy outsiders.
A typical Solomani Traveller will be proud and
competitive. They will work readily enough with nonSolomani so long as they are treated fairly but will not
tolerate perceived injustice. They will not expect to be
treated with respect just for being Solomani but because
they are giving their best – and being Solomani means
they will do so all the time.
A Solomani Traveller will try to outshine crewmates
on every occasion. Those with generally positive
personalities will do so honestly; weaker individuals
may falsify results, overstate their achievements or
claim credit for the work of others. They may also
claim that their rivals have done some or all of these
things. Good and bad people exist in all cultures but
behaviours tend to be more pronounced among the
Solomani due to their nature.
Thus a Solomani Traveller is likely to be a solid,
dependable and hard-working colleague or a sneaky
weasel who wants to sleaze their way to a position of
respect. Either way, they will expect to be recognised for
their (real or claimed) efforts and given a fair chance to
impress. Those of a positive disposition do not expect
to simply win the game (whatever the ‘game’ may be at
that time) just for being Solomani – but they do expect
to be given a chance to play hard and do their best.

Potential Secrets

The nature of Solomani society is such that some people
become covert informers for SolSec at an early age
or during their career. Others may have secrets of the
sort SolSec exists to ferret out. To simulate both these
aspects, Solomani Travellers are generated with greater
secrecy towards other players than is normal, so what a
Solomani Traveller tells their companions may not be the
whole truth – but the Referee knows the facts and can
use them when necessary. Typically this will be either
something to do with the Traveller’s genetic heritage,
membership of a faction or other organisation or status
as a covert SolSec monitor.

Naming and Titles

Solomani are given a first name at birth and take a
family name from one of their parents. Ranks or titles
are stated before a name.

124

Titles of nobility are abolished in the Solomani
Confederation. SOC 11+ indicates a background with
wealth, celebrity or links to the governing Solomani Party.
All of Earth’s peoples participated in the colonisation
of space and over thousands of years human cultures
have often blended together. First and last and
sometimes middle names will often come from
different ethnic backgrounds. For example, Yumiko
Egerszegi mixes Japanese and Hungarian.

Social Standing

SOC in the Solomani Confederation represents
circumstances such as class and wealth. It also reflects
their relationship with the dominant Solomani Party,
which exerts significant influence in Confederation
society. Jobs applications, bank loans, licenses or
business deals can all be expedited with support of
influential Party members.
A Traveller who starts out with SOC 9+ usually has
family or patrons with influential positions in the
Solomani Party hierarchy or possibly with SolSec or the
military, the two other institutions that wield the most
power. The greater their SOC, the more powerful these
patrons will be. Similarly, individuals of lower SOC may
defer to the Traveller in the hope of benefitting from
their influence.
A Traveller with SOC 6–8 has a normal relationship
with the Solomani Party. They may know people who
are ordinary Party members or even participate in Party
activities themselves but exert no personal influence.
A Traveller that begins with SOC 5 or less has an
adversarial relationship with the Solomani Party. Their
family may be associated with a faction organisation,
region or religion that the world’s Solomani Party
considers disloyal or dangerous. The Traveller might be
stigmatised as inferior for lacking pure Solomani blood.
Perhaps their parents offended an important Solomani
Party official or were arrested by Solomani Security.
The lower a Traveller’s SOC, the more institutionalised
discrimination is likely to be encountered.
In some ways, the Confederation is not as socially
stratified as the Imperium. Since there is no
hereditary nobility, individuals have the opportunity to
dramatically improve their SOC by joining the Solomani
Party hierarchy or rising to high rank in the military or
SolSec, all of which will result in increased SOC.

