Party Patronage and Advancement

The pervasive influence of the Solomani Party at all
levels of Confederation society means that individuals
favoured by the Party, as indicated by high SOC, will
receive assistance in their careers and those who are
disfavoured will be penalised.
These rules apply to all careers in the Solomani
Confederation except and Rogue and Drifter.
Qualification: Party connections are vital for finding good
jobs. Travellers apply their SOC modifier to qualification
rolls in addition to the usual DM.
Automatic Commission or Advancement through Patronage:
Travellers with SOC 10+ may advance through patronage
rather than merit. If a commission or advancement roll
fails but the Traveller has high enough SOC they gain
the position via patronage. The Traveller receives the
desired commission or promotion but does not get the
extra roll on the Skills and Training tables that success
normally brings.
There are two exceptions to this; if a natural 2 was rolled
or if the Traveller would be forced out of the career due
to a roll lower than the number of terms served that
means no commission or advancement is gained.
There are limits to how far a Traveller can rise through
patronage. The Party Patronage table shows the SOC
required to gain automatic advancement.

Party Patronage
SOC
10

If Advancement Roll Fails
Automatic promotion if
presently Rank 0

If Commission
Roll Fails
Automatic
commission

11

Automatic promotion if
presently Rank 0–1

Automatic
commission

12

Automatic promotion if
presently Rank 0–2

Automatic
commission

13+

Automatic promotion if
presently Rank 0–3

Automatic
commission

HUMAN RACIAL

BACKGROUND

Racial Solomani dominate the Solomani Confederation
but other human races also live there. In the Solomani
Confederation ‘race’ does not refer to a terrestrial
race such as Caucasian but instead to a subspecies of
Humaniti, such as Solomani or Vilani.

Race can be identified by family history, genealogy and
physical appearance on worlds up to TL5, by blood
tests at TL6 and by more precise genetic testing on TL7
worlds. It is recorded in identification papers such as
birth certificates and passports.
After determining the six Characteristics, roll on the
Human Racial Background table, adding the Traveller’s
SOC modifier to the roll.

Human Racial Background
2D
2 or less
3–4
5 or more

Racial Background
Non-Solomani Human
Mixed Race Human
Racial Solomani

Non-Solomani Human: The Traveller is descended from
a non-Terran branch of Humaniti; most likely the
Vilani. They are unlikely to be a member of a race
that originated far from the Solomani Confederation,
such as the Zhodani. Their features could appear
slightly exotic, making them a visible minority on
Solomani worlds.
Non-Solomani humans may suffer racial
discrimination. Unless ‘passing’, as detailed on page
126, the Traveller cannot enter the Solomani Party
career and suffers DM-2 when attempting to enter the
SolSec, Navy or Marine careers. The Traveller suffers
DM-2 on advancement rolls in any careers except
Drifter, Rogue or the worker assignment of Citizen.
They have DM+1 to qualify for Rogue careers.
Mixed Race: The Traveller shares racial Solomani and
non-Solomani ancestry. They might be part of the
generic mixed race of Humaniti that predominates
in the Imperium and is still common on those old
Solomani Confederation worlds settled in the Rule of
Man or Vilani Empire. The Traveller might instead be a
child or grandchild from a relationship between a racial
Solomani and a non-Solomani or mixed race humans.
Mixed Race humans are subject to racial prejudice
in some areas but moderate Solomani Party factions
accept them. A mixed race human has DM-3 to
qualify for a Solomani Party career and suffers DM-1
to advancement within every career except Drifter,
Rogue or the worker assignment of Citizen. The
Traveller has DM+1 to qualify for any Rogue career.

125

