Racial Solomani: The Traveller is of pure Solomani
ancestry. They suffer no penalties in Solomani society.
Due to the privileges offered to racial Solomani,
it may be harder to adjust to life on the fringes of
society. This results in DM-1 to advancement in the
Drifter career.
Passing: Since most mixed-race and some non-Solomani
humans can physically pass themselves off as racial
Solomani, people will sometimes risk criminal penalties
to falsify their own or their children’s official racial
status in order to avoid discrimination.

The Home Forces Reserves is not a career, as reserve
service requires only a few weeks commitment each
year. A Traveller who joins the Reserves continues in
their present assignment.

Non-Solomani or mixed race Travellers may opt to
determine if they or their forebears successfully hid their
real ancestry. This is a SOC check; Very Difficult (12+)
for non-Solomani and Average (8+) for mixed race.
Success means bribery, forgery or human error result in
the Traveller having official papers that falsely identify
them as racial Solomani. Failure means no opportunity
existed to alter apparent race.

Training: Upon enlistment Home Forces Reserves
members roll on the Reserves Training table and receive
the skill at the level shown, unless they already have
it. In addition, all groundside Home Forces Reserves
personnel receive Gun Combat 0. All naval Home Forces
Reserves personnel receive Vacc Suit 0.

A Traveller passing for racial Solomani will be
discovered if they try to enter SolSec, the Navy or the
Marines as these services perform detailed medical tests
on recruits during their induction process. The Traveller
is otherwise treated as racial Solomani in all respects,
with one exception:

1D
1

If a passing Traveller throws a natural 2 on an
advancement or survival roll, it means that in addition
to the usual effects, the truth of their heritage is
discovered. The ensuing scandal or criminal penalties
halves SOC, rounding up. If the Traveller was in a
Solomani Party career their rank in it drops to 0. If the
Traveller continues the career process they do so using
their real race.

VOLUNTEERING

The Solomani Confederation encourages patriotic citizens
to volunteer to help protect the security of the state.
Citizens may do so by choosing to become part of their
world’s Home Forces reserves or a Monitor on a part-time
basis even as they continue in full-time careers.

Home Forces Reserves

The Home Forces are the planetary defence forces of
the Solomani Confederation. They include part-time
and reserve units made up of citizen warriors and
retired veterans.
A Confederation citizen not in an active military
assignment such as Army, Marine or Navy careers may
enlist in the groundside component of their world’s
Home Forces Reserves. Travellers that follow merchant

126

marine or free trader Merchant assignments, or were
previously in a Navy career, may join the naval or
groundside component of the Home Forces. Enlistment
requires a commitment to report for periodic part-time
training or duties. This means a Traveller that is in a
Drifter or Rogue (pirate) career may not join the Home
Guard. Otherwise, enlistment is automatic.

Reserves Training

2
3
4
5
6

Groundside Reserves
Naval Reserves
Gun Combat (any) or Heavy Gunner 1 (any)
Weapons 1 (any)
Mechanic 1
Engineer (any)
1
One of Drive (any) 1, Flyer Pilot (any) 1
(any) 1 or Seafarer (any) 1
Electronics (any) 1
Electronics
(any) 1
Recon or Survival 1
Vacc Suit 1
Leadership or Tactics
Leadership or
(military) 1
Tactics (naval)
1

Rank: Most Home Forces maintain a rank structure
similar to the Confederation Armed Forces. Use Army
ranks for the groundside Reserves and Confederation
Navy ranks for the naval Reserves. Home Forces
Reserves ranks are preceded by the word ‘reserve’ in
situations when the Traveller is not on active duty.
Army, Marine and Navy veterans who later join the
Home Forces or Home Forces Reserves transfer their
military rank over. Thus, a marine force commander
with (rank 3) would become a reserve major (rank 3) in
the Home Forces Reserves.
A Traveller in the Reserves additionally rolls for
commission and advancement within the Home Forces.
Use the standard Army or Navy advancement tables
each term, with DM-2 since senior officers tend to be
full-time leaders of the reserves, with lower-ranked

