Monitors do not have formal rank but SolSec rates
them based on their position and usefulness. Any time
a monitor also receives promotion in their own career,
their monitor rank goes up by +1 (to a maximum of
6). A Traveller with monitor rank 3+ receives one
extra Benefit roll. This roll may be taken on their own
career’s table or on the SolSec Benefits table. Monitor
rank is primarily honorary in nature. Solomani use the
term ‘monitor rank’ as a cynical synonym for a position
without value or authority.
A monitor may continue to be a monitor even after
the Traveller creation process ends. SolSec may act
to protect and advance interests of any monitors who
are believed to be in danger or positioned to provide
information of great interest to Solomani Cause.

PARTY MEMBERSHIP

Any Traveller who qualifies for the Party career can
automatically join the Solomani Party. A Traveller
who is a racial Solomani or passing as one and not
in a Party career may still become a member of the
Solomani Party. This means they participate in periodic
Solomani Party meetings and events but do not make
the Solomani Cause their career.
If the Traveller has SOC 9 or less, joining the Party
requires giving up one of that term’s rolls on the
Skill and Training table. Instead of rolling, the
Traveller receives Party membership and SOC +1.
This represents the time spent on Party activities. If
the Traveller has SOC 10+, joining the Party requires
no sacrifice but gives no extra benefit; the Traveller
already has Party connections such as family members
and likely is a guest at Party events on a regular basis;
joining is a formality.
Travellers that join the Solomani Party effectively have
Party rank 0. This can only be increased by pursuing a
career within the Party itself.

CAREERS

Solomani Confederation Travellers may enter most of
the careers in the Traveller Core Rulebook. Exceptions
are detailed here.

128

New Careers

Careers described in this book reflect specific Solomani
Confederation institutions.
Navy: The Solomani Confederation Navy service
combines the duties of the Imperium’s Navy and Scout
Service.
Party: A Dedicated cadre in the dominant Solomani
Movement.
SolSec: The Traveller is an operative in the Solomani
Confederation’s political security and intelligence
service. Note that Solomani may also select other
Agent assignments representing police officers,
intelligence agents of other government ministries or
the armed forces and corporate spies.

Restricted Careers

Traveller Core Rulebook careers are available to
Solomani Confederation Travellers, with the following
restrictions:
Marine: The Confederation Marines are subordinate to
the Confederation Navy and specialise as ship’s troops.
Only the star marine assignment is available.
Navy: Use the Navy career in this book instead.
Noble: This career is unavailable. A Traveller
interested in being one of the elite should join the
Solomani Party instead.
Scout: This career is unavailable. A Traveller who wants
a similar experience should enlist in the Confederation
Navy instead.

The Solomani Draft

Confederation Travellers that opt for the Draft use the
Solomani Draft table.

Solomani Draft
1D

Career (assignment)

1

Navy (any)

2

Army (any)

3

Marine (star marines)

4

Merchant (merchant marine)

5

SolSec (any)

6

Agent (law enforcement)

