MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

You are involved in a riot, revolution, assassination or terrorist attack and suffer injury. Roll once on the Injury
table. Gain one of Explosives 1, Gun Combat 1 or Melee 1.

2

An anonymous SolSec monitor transmits reports claiming your political views are out of step with the current
zeitgeist. SolSec moves against you, ending your career.

3

You become disillusioned with the inability of the Solomani Party to achieve positive results and feel compelled
to drift away from your present career. If your next career term is Drifter gain an extra roll on the assignment skill
table of your choice.

4

A senior Solomani Party member who was your patron falls from favour and in the ensuing purge you go down
with them. You may defend or denounce them. If you defended your patron, increase your Advocate skill by +1
but lose SOC -1. If you denounce them, you are still forced out but as a reward for following the Party line, you
also keep this term’s Benefit roll.

5

An intimate or friend is discovered to have secret non-Solomani blood. Due to your connection to them, you
are tainted by this scandal, which forces you out of the Party. If you decide to remain on favourable terms with
them despite this shocking revelation, gain them as an Ally but lose SOC -1.

6

You travel to the Imperium to assist the Solomani Movement in the occupied systems. Imperial authorities
discover your activities and arrest you on suspicion of aiding terrorism. You are interrogated and imprisoned,
then deported back to the Confederation. You must take the Prisoner career in your next term.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not expelled from the career.

3

Your connections in the Solomani Movement open up lucrative opportunities at a Party owned corporation. If
you decide to transfer to a Citizen (corporate) or Merchant career in your next term, you automatically qualify
and receive DM+2 on your first advancement roll.

4

Your accomplishments see you selected to deliver a speech at a Party Congress. Roll Advocate or Art (acting)
7+. If successful, gain SOC +1. If unsuccessful, lose SOC -1.

5

You are asked to take the blame for a senior Party member’s mistakes. If you agree, suffer DM-1 to your
next advancement roll but gain either an Ally or one extra Benefit roll. If you refuse, take DM-2 to your next
advancement roll and gain them as a Rival.

6

Your faction is involved in a violent political struggle. Make an Advocate, Gun Combat, Explosives, Leadership
or Streetwise check. If you succeed, you come out on the winning side and gain DM+2 on your next
advancement roll. Fail and you suffer DM-2 on your next survival roll.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Solomani Life Events table on page 136.

8

You find evidence that casts doubt on a superior’s commitment to the Solomani Cause. If you expose and
denounce them, gain DM+2 to your next advancement roll. If you suppress the evidence and support them
anyway, they become an Ally.

9

You become deeply involved in the Solomani Movement’s factional politics. Gain one level in Advocate,
Diplomacy, Persuade or Science (philosophy) but also acquire a Rival from another Party faction.

10

You use your standing with the Party to promote the career of an ideologically correct artist, journalist or
performer. Receive either Arts 1 or Carouse 1 and gain a Contact in the media or entertainment industry.

11

You befriend a senior member of the Party hierarchy, who becomes an Ally and mentor. Either gain one level of
Leadership or gain DM+4 to your next advancement roll thanks to their patronage.

12

Your efforts to advance the Solomani Cause are recognised by the Party. You are automatically promoted.

131

