MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action (this is the same as a result of 2 on the Injury table). Alternatively, roll twice on the
Injury table and take the lower result.

2

You spend the entire term in the Frozen Watch, in cold sleep within a cryoberth. You are not ejected from the
career but do not make either an advancement or skill rolls this term. You may automatically reenlist if you
wish. This term is not counted toward your physical age (for the purposes of aging rolls); that is, your physical
age will be four years younger than your chronological age.

3

In a moment of anger, you criticise the incompetence of an officer who you believe was promoted due to their
Solomani Party connections. They discover or trump up evidence questioning your loyalty to the Solomani Cause,
triggering a SolSec investigation that forces you out of the Navy. Exception: If you are a secret SolSec agent, you
expose their activities. Your cover is blown and you must leave the service but you do not lose a Benefit roll.

4

During a crisis or battle, the ship’s safety hinges on your actions. You must make a check using a skill that
depends on your branch: Electronics (sensors) or Gunner if you are crew, Mechanic, Engineer or Vacc Suit if you
are technical and Pilot or Tactics (naval) if you are flight. If you fail, the ship suffers severe damage and you are
blamed for the disaster. You are court-martialled and discharged. If you succeed, your efforts ensure that you
are honourably discharged. You still leave the career but may keep your Benefit roll from this term.

5

In a three-way political conflict between the Party, the Navy and SolSec, the Navy loses. You are among
many personnel who are purged, ending your career. Exception: If you are a secret SolSec agent, you were
instrumental in the purge. Your cover is blown, ending your career and you gain a former Navy officer as an
Enemy, but do not lose a Benefit roll.

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

Your starship explores an alien world. Gain one of Animals (riding or training) 1, Survival 1, Recon 1 or
Science 1.

4

Your warship is assigned to a lengthy patrol. In your off-duty time, you have a choice between recreation and
joining a Party-sponsored political study group. If you choose recreation, gain either Carouse 1 or Gambler 1. If
you attend a political study group, gain a DM+2 on your next advancement roll in the Navy and roll INT 8+ to
gain one of Advocate 1 or Science (history or philosophy) 1.

5

You are assigned to test a new starship or weapon system, which is a prestige project of the Solomani Party.
Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in either Admin or Engineer (any). Gain one Contact at a Party-run corporation or
in the Ministry of Science and Technology.

6

Your vessel fights in a notable space engagement. Gain one of Electronics (sensors) 1, Engineer 1, Gunner 1,
Pilot 1 or Tactics (naval) 1.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Solomani Life Events table on page 136.

8

Your vessel participates in a diplomatic mission. Gain one of Language 1, Recon 1, Diplomacy 1, Steward 1 or
a Contact.

9

Your vessel is assigned to a deep space survey mission. Gain Astrogation 1 or Science (any) 1.

10

Your starship is sent on a covert mission into the Imperial space to provide support for Solomani guerrillas.
Gain one of Comms 1, Deception 1 or Remote Operations 1.

11

Your commanding officer takes an interest in your career. Either gain Tactics (naval) 1 or take a +4 DM on your
next Advancement roll thanks to his aid.

12

You display uncommon valour in a crisis, saving the entire ship. You gain a promotion or commission
automatically.

133

