MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table.

2

A covert mission into the Imperium is betrayed. You are arrested and put on show trial as a spy. You must take
the Prisoner career in your next term.

3

You become close to the target of your investigation and choose to protect them rather than complete the mission.
Gain an Ally and an Enemy.

4

During an intense mission you disobey orders and go rogue, completing the operation but incurring the wrath of
your superiors. You are reduced one rank.

5

You learn something you should not know and people, possibly in your own agency, want to kill you for it. Gain
an Enemy and Deception 1.

6

Injured in action. Roll once on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not expelled from the career.

3

You are assigned to a risky paramilitary operation in support of brave Solomani guerrillas in the occupied
systems. Roll INT 7+; if you succeed, increase one of these skills by one level: Explosives, Pilot (small craft or
spacecraft) or Tactics (any). If you fail, roll once on the Injury table.

4

You become emotionally involved with a monitor agent you recruited. Add them as an Ally but the strain of
covering up your involvement interferes with your promotion: suffer DM-1 to your next advancement roll.

5

You are saddled with a desk job organising SolSec monitor computer files. Roll Admin, Electronics (computers)
or Investigate 8+. If you succeed, you uncover overlooked evidence that sheds new light on an old case. Add
DM+1 to your next advancement roll and increase the skill you used by one level.

6

You undergo advanced tactical training. Roll EDU 8+ to increase one of Gun Combat, Explosives, Recon or
Tactics (military) skill by one level.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Solomani Life Events table on page 136.

8

An acquaintance says or does something that could get them arrested. You may report them and receive a
commendation for your loyalty (DM+2 on your next advancement roll) or cover for them (gaining them as
an Ally).

9

You risk your career to press for the investigation of a senior Solomani Party member you believe is betraying
the Cause. Roll Electronics (comms) or Investigate 8+; if you succeed, your evidence leads to their arrest. If
you fail, gain an Enemy.

10

An investigation into links between organised crime and corrupt Solomani Party officials requires a joint
operation with local law enforcement. Gain one Contact in a world’s police force or the Solomani Ministry of
Justice. Roll EDU 8+ to add one to either your Investigate or Streetwise skill.

11

The actions of Solomani terrorists threaten delicate negotiations with the Imperium. Stopping them requires
cooperation with your counterparts in Imperial Intelligence. Roll Carouse, Diplomat or Persuade 8+ to manage
the delicate relationship; if you succeed, earn their respect and gain a Contact at an Imperial spy agency. If you
fail, gain a Rival.

12

Your efforts expose a major conspiracy against the Solomani Confederation. You are automatically promoted.

135

