Solomani Life Events
2D

Event

Details

2

Illness or Accident

You suffer a serious injury or sickness. Roll on the Injury Chart.

3

Sleeper Agent

Someone you know turns out to be a SolSec agent. This might be useful or
detrimental to you, or just something you know that other people do not. Any one of
your Contacts, Allies, Rivals or Enemies can be the agent. If you have none, gain a
Contact who is an undercover SolSec agent. They may or may not be aware you know
of their status.

4

Disastrous
Relationship

A friendship, professional relationship or romance comes to an abrupt and
unpleasant end. Gain a Rival or an Enemy.

5

Improved Relationship Your relationship with a Contact becomes closer or more permanent. Any of your
Contacts can be upgraded to Ally. If you have no Contacts, you gain one

6

New Relationship

You begin a romantic relationship or friendship. If it works out (your choice) you are
still in the relationship and you have an Ally. If not, you are still in touch. You have a
Contact with some complicated emotional baggage.

7

New Contact

You gain a new Contact

8

Informed On

Someone reported you to SolSec for something you may or may not have done or
said. One of your Friends or Contacts becomes an Enemy

9

The Party Approves!

Your actions have pleased the local Solomani Party officials. You may gain DM+2 on
your next Qualification roll, or gain a Contact who is a mid-level Party official.

10

Fortunate Citizen

You have a run of good luck, allowing you to gain DM+2 on any one Benefit roll.

11

Investigated

SolSec arrests you on charges of sedition and anti-Solomani activities. If you are
guilty, spend your next term as a Prisoner. If you are not, lose D3 Benefit rolls due to
the expense of proving it.

12

The Party Needs You

You are asked by SolSec or a Party official to undertake a special task. If you agree
to make the Confederation that little bit safer you gain an Ally high up in SolSec
or the Party and are automatically promoted next term, though that is obviously
not connected to this matter. If you decline, you are grudgingly paid hush money
equivalent to one extra Benefit roll and gain a Rival in the form of a SolSec agent
tasked with watching for further disloyalty on your part.

MUSTERING OUT BENEFITS

The following changes and special notes apply to Solomani Confederation Travellers.

Retirement Pay

Retirement Pay in the Confederation is only half what is in the Imperium. The exception is service in the Solomani Party
or in SolSec, which provides the full pension. Pensions may be collected at Class A or B starports within the Solomani
Confederation. SolSec may also collect pensions at Class C starports; their offices are everywhere. Individuals caught
passing as racial Solomani during a career lose this pension.

136

