C

H

A

P

T

E

R

T

W

E

L

V

THE DROYNE

The Droyne are an intelligent race with multiple
castes. These display significant physical and
psychological differences but share a common body
type with characteristics similar to both reptiles and
birds. Most are quite small and delicate, standing
around one metre tall but some castes are larger and
more heavily built. With hollow, bird-like bones even
the largest Droyne is still lighter and weaker than an
equivalent human. Droyne as a species range from
one to two metres tall and 25–50 kilograms in body
mass but variation within each caste is smaller.
All castes are similar, displaying bilateral symmetry
and the same layout of body parts. Droyne have the
same greyish skin tone, although this is overlaid
with black markings that vary from one individual to
another but follow patterns based upon caste. Droyne
have two legs, two arms and a pair of wings. These
vary in size; in some Droyne they are large enough to
allow flight in suitable conditions; in other cases the
wings are vestigial. Even then, they assist in balance
when carrying out complex movements. Wing size
variation occurs across all castes.
Droyne hands and feet consist of four digits. The four
long fingers of the hands are all mutually opposable,
effectively giving a Droyne as many thumbs as it
needs. Three of the foot digits are developed as
clawed toes, with the fourth taking the form of a
bony spur that can be used in combat. Eyes are large
and compound, giving a wider field of vision than a
human. Droyne also have a high potential for psionic
powers and development of these abilities is threaded
through all aspects of their society.
The Droyne presented something of an enigma when
they were first encountered and learning about
them has tended to produce more questions than
answers. It is now widely believed that the mysterious
Ancients were Droyne but this is not as simple as
it sounds. It may be that the culture known as the
Ancients were Droyne but it does not necessarily
follow that all Droyne were Ancients. Indeed, the
Ancients are known to have taken other species,
including humans, to serve or work alongside them.
Could some of these ‘servitor peoples’ have been

138

-

E

