sufficiently part of the Ancients’ society that they,
too, can be considered Ancients? Scientists continue
to study the Droyne in the hope of learning more
about the Ancients, whilst at the same time trying to
understand this puzzling species.
There are Droyne communities all across Charted
Space and perhaps beyond. They vary widely, with
some populations apparently content to live a simple,
pastoral life and others roaming the stars in advanced
ships. There are cultural similarities between all
groups and they share a common language. This is
known as Oynprith and displays virtually no variation
between communities separated by hundreds of
parsecs and – in some cases – thousands of years. It
is believed that at least some of these communities
have had no contact with other Droyne for millennia,
yet the linguistic and cultural drift that would be
expected has not occurred. Ancients sites also
include writings in Oynprith that can be read by a
modern user of the language.
The original homeworld of the Droyne has never been
discovered by humans, although there are candidates
within Charted Space. Among these is Andor, in the
Spinward Marches, which has ideal conditions for
the development of a race like the Droyne. The usual
assumption is that the homeworld of the Droyne is
the homeworld of the Ancients and if the connection
between the two is correct then this assumption is
reasonable. However, the Ancients were a culture
whereas the Droyne are a race. It may be that the
Ancients arose elsewhere among a people who had

moved on from their original homeworld. Be that as
it may, the Droyne name for their world of origin is
Eskayloyt, which is usually translated as ‘lost home’.
It is generally assumed that the Droyne themselves
may not know where they originated but Eskayloyt
may have been ‘lost’ in some other context, taken
over by another species, destroyed in the Final War
that ended the Ancients’ civilisation… or perhaps not
so much lost as ‘removed from memory’. There are
many who believe the Droyne know more than they
are telling and that the location of their homeworld is
known to at least some of them. This raises questions
about what the Droyne might be planning or what
they may fear but as usual the Droyne themselves
remain enigmatic.
If there is one feature if the Droyne that stands out
above all else it is that they are mysterious. They
do not offer an explanation of what they are doing
and why, or at least none that can be understood
or even recognised by outsiders. They engage in
conduct that does not make sense from another
race’s perspective, often carrying out actions that
seem to have no benefit for them or which represent
a needlessly convoluted way of going about a simple
task. Some of their actions make no sense at all and
appear to be completely random. Yet there must be
a plan or purpose; no species creates an advanced
starfaring society without some rhyme or reason to
their actions.

What Do We Really Know?

All data presented about the Droyne is based upon observation and research. Some of it can be
considered reliable, such as the height of a typical Warrior or other directly observable data. However,
most of what is ‘known’ is in fact supposition or extrapolation from observations and may be true only in
some cases or entirely mistaken. Thus it is possible for a group of Droyne to deviate considerably from
what is presented here.
However, there must be some rationale for any given set of circumstances. A Droyne society may not
make any sense to outside observers but there must be reasons for everything. The Referee needs to
consider the implications of any deviation from what is thought to be true by human scientists. The
Droyne are enigmatic but not weird for the sake of it.

139

