C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

H

I

R

A HISTORY OF

T

E

E

N

THE DROYNE
The Droyne probably evolved on a world orbiting an F2
to F7 star, supposition is based on observed preferences
for quality of natural light and the sort of planets that
might form around such a star. Their homeworld was
probably similar to Terra but with a warmer average
climate. This world is commonly referred to as Droynia
but is more correctly named Eskayloyt, or ‘Lost Home’.
The legend of Eskayloyt occurs independently among
Droyne found on Andor in the Spinward Marches, Zeen
in Deneb and Auitawry in the Trojan Reach. However,
none of the legends provide much in the way of clues to
the location of the world.
The Droyne homeworld might be tens of thousands of
parsecs away or it might have become unrecognisable.
Natural disaster is a possibility and the Final War
that destroyed the Ancients’ civilisation could have
obliterated the homeworld. Wilder hypotheses suggest
that Droynia was somehow transformed and is no longer
recognisable, that it was moved into a pocket universe or
parallel dimension, or that the Droyne evolved on Earth
from the dinosaurs and somehow left behind no traces
to be found. This is rather unlikely, since centuries of
fossil-hunting have produced absolutely no indications
of proto-Droyne on any known world. A fossil record
might be missed if the homeworld were now an asteroid
belt or was buried under tons of ice but the lack of fossil
finds on long-inhabited planets safely rules out the
possibility that the Droyne bequeathed their homeworld
to humans or another intelligent species.
Wherever they evolved, it is likely the Droyne were
not the only species to evolve a caste system. Initially
this was specialisation in animals rather than a social
organisation but it fulfilled the same function. The
proto-Droyne were amphibians who moved into the
forest floors and eventually took to nesting in the
treetops. Wings evolved, allowing flight or at least a
directed jump and glide from higher points to lower
ones. At this point the proto-Droyne had three castes;
one that hunted and defended the group, one that built
and tended the nest and another that produced and
nurtured the young.

140

As climate change replaced vast forests with plains,
proto-Droyne populations were isolated from one
another in the remaining forests. As with many other
species, the fight to adapt and survive produced greater
intelligence and ultimately self-awareness. A subcaste of hunter appeared, with greater intelligence and
leadership abilities and eventually became the modern
Leader caste. Dedicated Warriors also emerged from the
original hunter caste, taking on new roles as protectors
of the Leaders as well as defending the group as a while.
Sports also appeared, originally as something between
a hunter, leader and warrior who could act as a scout or
emissary between one group and another.
The original hunters ceased to exist as a caste; their roles
were taken on by the new castes in a more specialised
manner, with Leaders directing Droyne society. Likewise
the nest-builders evolved into more specialised Workers.
These included builders and agricultural workers as
society moved to a settled agrarian lifestyle and began
to build homes at ground levels. As metalworking and
technology developed the Technician caste also emerged
and the nest-builder disappeared.
This process took millions of years and even once
technology was available the Droyne were content to
live pastoral lives. They made the tools they needed and
traded with other groups for any surplus they might hav
but apparently had no desire to ‘progress’ in the usual
sense or to build great empires.

THE PREHISTORIC

PERIOD

Little is known for sure about the Droyne prehistoric
period, which is generally assumed to have lasted from
the emergence of physically modern Droyne to around
-350,000. Most of what is known comes from research
undertaken on Zhadant, homeworld of the Zhdant
people. This is by its nature incomplete, as the Zhodani
were researching the remains of a Droyne culture
on Viepchakl – their world’s moon – rather than the

