homeworld of the Droyne. There is also the possibility
that the Zhodani, who seem to have an affinity for the
Droyne, have not revealed everything they learned.

that time the Droyne were progressing relatively quickly
and had developed a TL10 society, although the jump
drive had not yet been invented.

It appears that the Droyne began to emerge as an
intelligent species around 3,000,000 years ago
and progressed slowly for most of that time. By
-500,000 all the modern castes had appeared and
the population had largely coalesced into city-states
with a population of about one million. These were
separated by wide buffer zones but inevitably conflict
between city-states occurred.

It is not clear why the Droyne of that era had begun to
advance but they launched sublight exploration and
colonisation missions to nearby star systems. Yaskoydray
was not impressed with these achievements; he had
both intellect and drive, and he used both with gusto.
Having made himself immortal and taken control of his
homeworld, Yaskoydray produced 20 children. Each of
these had 20 of their own, creating a super-intelligent
elite to run Droyne society.

At first the wars were minor and sporadic but as they
became more common there was a steady drive towards
progress. After 10,000 years or so from the appearance
of the first cities, Droyne technology had reached TL5.
This pace was glacially slow by the standards of most
other races but sufficient that wars had become very
destructive. They were still relatively rare but since
war generally meant ruin for both sides an alternative
began to emerge. Conflict was ritualised by -470,000,
involving only Workers and Warriors. A city might be
weakened by losses but with its leadership and breeding
population intact it would survive.
The ritualisation of warfare reduced the pressure to
advance and adapt, and indeed may have promoted
technological stagnation. Droyne society entered what is
generally known as the Long Plateau, remaining at TL5
for millennia. It is not clear exactly when the plateau
ended but when it did there was a rapid surge forward.
This was due to a totally new factor in Droyne society and
gave rise to the culture known today as the Ancients.

RISE OF THE ANCIENTS
The sudden advance of the Droyne probably began
around -350,000. What evidence has been found is
confusing and often contradictory, and the situation is
further complicated by other factors. The Ancients used
other species as servitors or perhaps allies, so some
finds of Ancients sites or relics have been misidentified.
The wide spread of Ancients sites also caused some to
be identified as other cultures. A desire for secrecy and
to obtain advantages has led to much information being
suppressed. The result is that little is known for sure
about the Ancients and much of what is ‘known’ has
later turned out to be wrong.
The rise of the Ancients is attributed to a single
individual, known as Yaskoydray or ‘Grandfather’.
Apparently Yaskoydray was a mutant, a super-genius
whose abilities far surpassed those of even the most
capable ordinary Droyne. His appearance has been
dated variously to around -310,000 to -300,000. At

Yaskoydray developed the jump drive and sent his
descendants out to explore the universe along with
favoured groups of ordinary Droyne. Their collective
culture is today known as the Ancients and they
achieved wonders. Voyaging tremendous distances
they learned secrets of the universe by observation
and experimentation. Some of the experiments were
biological, uplifting primitive species to create servitors
for the Ancients. Others were subtle, creating new
materials or advancing Yaskoydray’s understanding of
the universe a little more. Some projects were grandiose,
such as moving entire planets to create a rosette of
habitable worlds or modifying others to make them more
suitable for colonisation.
The Ancients spread out across the galaxy, voyaging
far from what is now Charted Space. They attained a
level of technology almost unimaginable to modern
people. It is widely thought that their population was
rather low, although this may have been because the
major population centres were destroyed. The smallpopulation theory regarding the Ancients is supported
by an apparent quest to find or create suitable workers.
Humans from Earth were promising and seeded on many
worlds, sometimes with genetic modification, to create
assistants for the Droyne-Ancients. Another Terran
species, the wolf, was also selected for this role and
uplifted to sentience. Populations of what would be later
known as Vargr were seeded to coreward of the humansettled worlds.
It may be that the Ancients culture was an overlay
upon that of the Droyne and that most Droyne were
not really Ancients – they just worked for them like
humans and other species did. Whatever the truth
of this, the Droyne were spread to many worlds.
Sometimes this was deliberate, with a specific
project in mind, but it may be that some Droyne
simply settled where they wanted. Yaskoydray and
his offspring were busy with their projects; the
activities of ordinary Droyne may have been beneath
their notice. These scattered Droyne had Ancients
technology but their status as ‘Ancients’ is debatable.

141

