Eventually, Yaskoydray had fulfilled all the ambitions
his mighty intellect could conceive. He spent some
time touring the galaxy, admiring his own works and
those of his offspring. Eventually, he found a new goal,
something so important to him that he called all his
offspring to help him. It is not known what this goal
was but only some of his offspring responded to the
call. Whether others were too busy or they actively
opposed Grandfather’s new plan they omitted or
outright refused to muster to take part in it.
Yaskoydray embarked on his goal but encountered
resistance from his offspring. It may be that some
directly countered his efforts or that their work got in
the way of his own. Either way, Grandfather resolved to
kill all his children and grandchildren, and began doing
so. This ultimately escalated into the Final War that
destroyed the Ancients’ civilisation.
The war was long and complex, with many factions.
Some Ancients sided with Grandfather either
wholeheartedly or out of convenience. Others tried to
remain neutral or fled rather than fight. Factions fought
one another over control of resources they needed to
defeat Yaskoydray. Ordinary Droyne and other species
were used as disintegrator-fodder by all sides or
survived as best they could.
The Final War lasted for around 2,000 years. By the
end of it, Grandfather was sure he had eliminated
his offspring and crushed all other opposition. Suns
had been detonated, planets turned into planetoid
belts and even more destructive weapons unleashed.
As the surviving Droyne and other races huddled
in the darkness of a shattered galaxy, Grandfather
disappeared. According to some legends he created
a pocket universe for himself and his new robotic
servants, although there are some who claim he was
killed or left Charted Space.
The ‘pocket universe’ theory raises another question: If
Yaskoydray had eliminated all opposition, why retreat
from Charted Space? There are no good answers,
although certain Ancients ‘experts’ claim Yaskoydray
discovered something that frightened him so much he
hid himself away. Others wonder if he is not working on
his great project and will someday return to bring about
a golden age of enlightenment – or maybe exterminate
everyone in Charted Space.
These questions remain unanswered but in the
meantime the surviving Droyne were left leaderless and
largely isolated from one another. Some worlds retained
a high level of technology but could not maintain
the installations and devices of the Ancients in the
longer term. Others destroyed or hid them out of fear,

especially since a characteristic of the later stages of the
war was bombardment of any world with a significant
Ancients installation. Some worlds were so damaged the
population regressed to barbarism and it is possible that
some Droyne groups actually did so by choice.

DECLINE AND

RECOVERY

The surviving Droyne communities were largely isolated
from one another and followed the same pattern of
gradual regression. Those that had not already been
blasted back to the stone age lost their technology, with
a few scattered exceptions. Droyne became extinct on
many of their former worlds. Fossil records from this era
indicate that most Droyne communities lost the ability
to caste, becoming a generic proto-Droyne. How similar
these creatures were to the original pre-proto-Droyne is a
matter for conjecture, as is their level of intelligence. It
may be that on some worlds at least the Droyne not only
lost their technology but also their self-awareness.
The rate of decline was different in various locations
but overall it was deepest by around -75,000. By this
time there were virtually no Droyne communities with
the ability to caste and fewer still with technology
above the stone age. By all known principles the Droyne
should have become extinct. Instead, a remarkable
recovery began on around 20 worlds. This was more or
less simultaneous, as far as can be ascertained from
archaeological sites and folklore, suggesting an outside
influence of some kind.
On the ‘recovery worlds’ the Droyne suddenly regained
the ability to caste. The key to this was a set of golden
discs engraved with portentous symbols, known as
coyns. The Droyne of the Ancients and pre-Ancients
eras had not needed such artificial aids but their use
in a mystical ceremony seems to unlock some kind
of preconditioning to develop the characteristics of
a caste. Perhaps the earlier Droyne had some other
method triggered by social factors or a function of the
Leader caste.
It is possible that one of the Droyne worlds developed
the coyns and rapidly rediscovered space travel,
spreading them to other worlds. This would establish
the Droyne as a major race by the usual benchmark of
having invented the jump drive rather than learning how
to construct it from others. It has also been postulated
that Ancients technology was pressed into use but this
theory has few adherents. Most Droyne were terrified of
anything to do with the Ancients, making this unlikely
even if they were able to figure out how to use such
advanced devices after so many years of barbarism.
.

142

