Wacky Droyne Theories: A Solomani Perspective

A popular ‘theory’ among a certain segment of Solomani society gives the credit for the Droyne
renaissance to humans… of course. According to this rather... unconventional… hypothesis, the Ancients
left behind a number of small installations on Terra, which were looked after by a highly advanced human
civilisation located in the northern latitudes of what is now Eurasia.
As the glaciers began to roll over these regions around 100,000 years ago, the gallant decision was
made to abandon them and ensure no traces remained, so that Terran humans could chart their course
through the Ice Age without alien technology. Thus the proper and true development of the human race
would continue without outside influence. The humans of the time destroyed the Ancients installations
and left them in a condition whereby the glaciers would obliterate them, moving south ahead of the
advancing ice. By the time it retreated 80,000 years or so later there was nothing left of the installations
or the advanced human civilisation that had kept them running and Solomani humans began inventing
civilisation from the ground up.
The last act before abandoning the sites was to crew the remaining ships and set out in search of the
Droyne. Why the humans would do this is one of the many things this ‘theory’ does not explain. Nor
does it match the archaeological records either from Earth or any Droyne planet. However, adherents will
fervently claim that these brave adventurers found the regressed remains of the Droyne and rescued them
from extinction.
Thus the coyns are a human invention, created in a bid to save the Droyne and give them back the stars.
The fact that there is no evidence whatsoever of any of this and plenty that disproves it, is not enough to
dissipate this idea. It has become a folk tale about how the noble proto-Solomani kept the secrets of the
Ancients for them as long as they could, then gave them back before nobly reverting to barbarism so they
could develop as they should. And that is why Solomani humans are the best of all races, obviously.

143

