C

H

A

P

T

E

R

–

F

O

U

R

T

E

E

DROYNE, CHIRPERS AND

RELATED BEINGS

As already noted, the Droyne evolved from a protoDroyne creature, then regressed and advanced again.
Whether the regression caused by loss of the ability to
caste was an evolutionary phase is an open question.
It is widely believed that the ability itself was never
lost; only the capability to activate it. Thus the
uncasted Droyne of the regression period were actually
no different in biological terms to those who became
before and after.
The situation is further confused by the existence of
creatures known to humans as Chirpers due to a sound
they make. Chirpers were variously thought to be a
totally separate species with similarities to Droyne or a
distant cousin of theirs but in recent years it has been
discovered that they are more closely related. Chirpers
belong to the same genus as Droyne and were native to
Eskayloyt. They appear to have been spread throughout
Charted Space and beyond by the Ancients; for what
reason remains unknown. It appears that Chirpers and
proto-Droyne had a common ancestor.
The divergence point might have been the ability
to caste; Chirpers are not thought to have this
capability. It also seems that whilst Droyne – at least
those within Charted Space – have evolved little
since they achieved their modern form, Chirpers are
capable of greater divergence. Chirper populations
on some remote worlds have been observed to differ
from the ‘interstellar norm’, suggesting that they are
continuing to evolve and may eventually diverge to a
much greater degree.

Droyne Koynis

144

Wacky Droyne Theories:
The Dead End Telepaths

All data presented about the Droyne is based
upon observation and research. There is a
‘theory’, backed by only a few scientists of the
fringe sort, that the Droyne are an evolutionary
and cultural dead end. They developed the
ability to caste and later perfected it. Then
they just… stopped. Modern Droyne are not
evolving, either culturally or physically and will
eventually fall by the wayside. This ‘theory’
holds that Chirpers are the future of the Droyne
family of species, as they will eventually
develop past their stagnated cousins.
This idea is based on the concept that the
Droyne are somehow ‘stuck’ in their current
form and culture. This is not very scientific
but backed up by a capability the Droyne are
known to have. Some members of their society
have the ability to store tremendous volumes of
information passed to them telepathically and
to pass it on to a new generation. As a direct
result, the Droyne species ‘remembers too much’
and is somehow unable to move forward. The
Droyne subconscious is living in the past and
somehow suppressing the ability to change and
evolve that most species benefit from.
The means by which this happens must be
psionic, so the ‘theory’ goes. What could halt
the progress of an entire species, other than
a mysterious and generally misunderstood
force? Droyne psionics thus come at the price
of dooming their civilisation. And that is why
psionics are bad – or so say the adherents of this
baseless but surprisingly common belief.

N

