MODERN DROYNE

Modern Droyne society is heavily based around the six
castes that now exist. These form not only the fabric of
society but also impose physical and mental differences
upon the Droyne that enter them. Juvenile Droyne are
physically and mentally much the same but as they
enter adolescence – typically around age 12 – they
undergo a casting ceremony. It is possible that in the
distant past this was instigated by the leaders of a
community, perhaps by psionic means or a ritualised
trigger, but the method was apparently lost. Today,
the casting ritual involves the drawing of golden coyns
engraved with important symbols. This triggers the
casting process within the individual Droyne and also
provides a measure of insight into their likely future.
Once casted, Droyne rapidly develop the physical
and mental characteristics of their new identity. The
mechanism by which they undergo these rapid changes
is not known but is probably not esoteric. Droyne
development upon casting is fast but not excessively so.
What is remarkable is the degree of divergence from the
uncasted state that occurs in such a short time.

The Military Leader subcaste is responsible for
leadership in all forms of conflict. This includes the
obvious military forces but also law enforcement, fire
and rescue services. As with other Leader subcastes
there will be a hierarchy within an organisation, although
it may not be clear to outsiders.
Drones (Aydirsoth) are responsible for bearing young
and also have a variety of important supporting roles
in society, often acting as middle-management for the
Leader caste. In this context the Drones will advise
the Leaders on the situation and what outcomes are
desirable for the long-term good of the community and
the Leaders will then decide what to do. Implementing
their decisions may be a matter for less senior Leaders
or the Drone caste.
Family Drones bear young and look after them, providing
an education into most aspects of Droyne society. Young
receive specialist instruction from appropriate caste
members when it is time but it is the Family Drones
that prepare them to receive it and ensure they know
everything necessary to function in Droyne society.

Modern Droyne Castes

Each caste has three subcastes, creating a specialism
in which the Droyne will work for life. Only in a dire
emergency will Droyne change subcastes and movement
between castes has never been observed.
Leaders (Aykrusk) direct and manage all aspects of
Droyne society. Some are specialists, some generalists
and some advisors to other leaders. What all have
in common is a larger brain case and increased
intelligence, which is coupled with enhanced logic
and intuition. Leaders are instinctively drawn to
decision-making and compelled to take responsibility
for their choices. Accountability and transparency
are largely unknown in Droyne society, at least in
the usual human sense. Instead, Droyne Leaders are
accountable to themselves.
The Leader-of-Leaders subcaste forms the uppermost
echelon of society in all Droyne communities. A small
settlement might have one Leader-of-Leaders; larger
groupings might have a hierarchy of subordinate leaders
who take charge of specific projects or areas of activity
or who advise and support the one in overall charge.
The Priestly Leader subcaste specialises in what might
be called spiritual and social aspects of Droyne society.
Droyne do not have a religion as such but their lives are
filled with many rituals of social significance. These are
presided over by the Priestly Leader caste.

Leadership in Droyne Society

Roles are very clearly defined among the Droyne
and micromanagement by higher leaders is rare
– it is simply not their function. The level at
which any decision is made is clearly understood
by everyone involved, without ever being spelled
out or written down in a procedural handbook.
For example, the senior Leaders will decide
there is to be a feast and take advice on the
implications of the event from their subordinate
Priestly Leaders. Having decided on what food
is to be served, the leaders hand over the task
to the Social Drones who source the correct
ingredients and ensure the workers prepare
them correctly.
As a general rule what is to be done comes down
from the next layer of leadership above, without
instructions on how it is to be done. A mid-level
Social Drone might decide how to carry out the
project at hand, breaking it down into smaller
tasks, then give orders on what is to be done to
the workers undertaking each of the tasks. They
are expected to know how to do what is asked
of them, and do not need to be told by someone
whose specialist area of expertise is not that
specific task. Everyone has a function and knows
where that function ends.

145

