Priestly Drones carry out most rituals under the
direction of Priestly Leaders and are also repositories
for the history of the community. Priestly Drones are
thought to have some traits in common with one of the
vanished castes of the proto-Droyne, the idiot-savant.
These individuals were barely capable of functioning
as a person but could recall any fact or piece of
information they had ever been taught. Priestly drones
do not approach this extreme but their powers of recall
are legendary.
Social Drones are the mid-level managers and facilitators
of Droyne society. The lowest echelons of this caste are
little more than errand-runners whilst the senior members
make most of the minor day-to-day decisions under the
overall guidance of the Leader caste.
Workers (Aydin) are the least intelligent and – not
coincidentally – the most docile of all Droyne castes.
Their function is to labour and to provide semi-skilled
assistance to other castes – and to be content to do
it. They have little imagination beyond figuring out
how to complete their tasks. Those involved in hard
physical work can be quite large, standing up to two
metres tall, whilst others are small and wiry. In any
Droyne community there will be Workers going about
all manner of tasks and they will generally ignore
outsiders. They are not robots; they are perfectly aware
of the interruption and will react if necessary such as
to take cover from an attack. However, Workers also
know that it is not correct to interfere with what a
Worker is doing; the correct approach is to speak to the
supervising Leader, Drone or Technician. Those who
take an incorrect approach are of no consequence and
will just have to wait until the correct person notices
them and takes action. In short, Workers work. All
other considerations are outside their remit.
The Farming Worker subcaste is involved in all aspects
of food production and preparation. In the latter role
they are usually assistants to a technician rather than
taking the lead.
The Labouring Worker subcaste provides manual
labour under the direction of other castes, as might
be expected. However, not all members of this caste
are dumb hunks of muscle. Labouring Workers include
receptionists, clerks and all manner of others who
provide ‘light’ support to other castes. Those employed
in this manner tend to be smaller and smarter than the
more physical workers.
The Building Worker subcaste exists mainly to assist
Technicians. In addition to providing muscle power they
are usually skilled in a particular role. Building Worker
tasks include driving vehicles, laying power cables and

146

other fairly skilled occupations. Like other workers,
their low intellect manifests as a lack of imagination
or interest in anything beyond their job rather than
complete stupidity.
Warriors (Aydih) tend to be larger and stronger than
most other castes, sometimes reaching a height of two
metres. They are intelligent and imaginative enough to
make tactical decisions but are not greatly concerned
with strategy. Leaders decide what is to be achieved and
the warriors figure out how to make it happen.
The Battling Warrior subcaste specialises in direct
combat and security. Battling Warriors make up the bulk
of security forces as well as the direct-combat elements
of the military.
Guard Warriors have a variety of defensive and protective
roles. Where Battling Warriors are primarily concerned
with destroying the enemy, Guard Warriors protect the
community first and foremost. They can be found in
combat roles but also as firefighters and emergency
medical personnel.

Each According to its Nature

The subcaste a Droyne belongs to directs its
thinking to a degree not seen in most other
species. For example, if a security detail
accompanying a Leader comes under attack
the Battling Warriors will immediately engage
the enemy whilst the Guard Warriors will
be primarily concerned with protecting the
Leader. They will give body cover, look around
for somewhere to shelter and rush their Leader
to it. Meanwhile the Voyaging Warriors will be
seeking an escape route, vehicle or a means to
outflank the attackers.
This is not taken to ridiculous extremes –
of course a Guard Warrior will shoot at the
attackers but destroying them is the priority
of the Battling Warriors. The teamwork is a
marvel to behold; the Battling Warriors know
they are free to engage the enemy and crush
the threat because the Guard Warriors will
do their part in keeping the Leader alive.
The Battling Warriors will make local tactical
movements but will not go dashing off to the
flank because they know a Voyaging Warrior
will be doing that. A well-trained military team
from another species can come close to this
level of cooperation but it is the caste system
that allows the Droyne to perfect it.

