The Voyaging Warrior subcaste specialises in dangerous
roles that may require movement or travel. Traditionally
this meant scouts, light infantry and maritime combat
personnel but in a starfaring society Voyaging Warriors
are likely to be found as warship crewmembers.
Technicians (Ayssath) tend to be small but highly
dextrous and agile. They are skilled and clever within
their field of expertise but lack ambition or curiosity
outside it. Innovation comes from a team of Technicians
directed by a Leader. Without that leadership the
Technicians will fix problems as they arise but may
not be proactive. For example, a band of Technicians
left leaderless for some reason in an installation where
systems are failing will fix them in a sensible order
but may not be proactive about gathering materials or
making a plan to deal with the overall problem.
Fixing Technicians are responsible for the
maintenance and repair of all systems and equipment,
whether large and simple or tiny and sophisticated.
They are not creative, so will put a broken device back
together as close as possible to its original condition
even if it could have been improved or modified
during the process.
The Artificer subcaste create new devices and means
of fulfilling the needs of the community. This includes
equipment, structures, computer software, chemicals
and pharmaceuticals. Like Fixing Technicians, they are
not creative. Artificers will closely follow a brief given to
them by their Leader, ignoring interesting spinoffs and
additional applications.

Dreaming Technicians are the most creative of all
non-Leaders. They are scientists and researchers in
many fields or in some cases problem-solvers. These
individuals will be directed to think through a problem
and suggest courses of action to their Leaders, along
with their likely consequences.
Sports (Praytsirv) are something of an exception to the
Droyne societal norms. All other castes require the
presence of other Droyne to create a mutually supporting
community but a Sport can function away from it for
extended periods. They still need a community; their
existence would be pointless without one to serve.
However, they are the only Droyne who can stand to
be away from their kind for any length of time. Sports
typically act as agents and messengers, and need little
oversight from their Leaders.
Finding Sports serve their community by finding
whatever its leaders need. This is typically resources
but they can be ‘found’ by a variety of means. Some
Finding Sports are prospectors, others traders. Some are
generalists who can be assigned a task and left to use
their initiative about how to accomplish it.
Speaker Sports are diplomats, emissaries and
messengers. Like other members of their caste they have
considerable initiative and creativity by Droyne standards.
Seeking Sports range far from their home community.
They may be explorers, scouts, spies or agents sent to
cause problems for other groups.

147

