Groups, Not Individuals

An individual Droyne is not very creative and
lacks initiative but a group of Droyne can be a
powerhouse of ideas and action. The unique way
Droyne society functions makes them collectively
more capable than a similarly sized group of less
organised beings but if a community is disrupted
its efforts can be feeble.
The normal process when a problem occurs is
that a Leader decides it must be solved and
consults a Dreaming Technician for suggestions
on how to go about it. The Leader then picks
the best option and orders a group to carry it
out. This might be a mix of castes or a team of
Warriors, Technicians or Workers depending on
the circumstances. A Drone might manage some
or all aspects of the task, whilst Sports are sent
to obtain any assistance or knowledge that might
be required.
When it functions smoothly this arrangement
is extremely efficient. If the Drone were unable
to provide mid-level guidance the whole effort
could fall apart. Droyne are well aware of
this and routinely send Sports to disrupt the
activities of rivals by interfering at just the right
time and place.

THE ROLE OF RITUAL

Droyne daily life is heavily ritualised, although it is not
always clear what is a ritual and what is simply the
standard way of carrying out a task. The Droyne do not
have a religion as such, although the attitude of some
groups towards Yaskoydray and any remnant of the
Ancients culture appears to border upon worship. Other
groups are terrified of anything to do with the Ancients
and will not mention such things; it is also possible that
a form of mystical propitiation takes place. The Droyne
themselves do not discuss their religious beliefs and will
not confirm they have any.
Some rituals are absolutely essential to Droyne society.
Above all is the Iskyar, the casting ritual, without
which Droyne society would not exist at all. This is
administered by the Priestly Drone subcaste under the
direction of the Leaders and appears to trigger latent
psionic abilities geared to the development of the young
Droyne. It is widely believed that until the casting ritual
is carried out, the adolescent Droyne has the potential
to develop into a member of any caste. The means by
which the individual’s rapid development takes place

148

after the ritual is unknown but thought to be directed
by the individual’s own psionic abilities, even if it
has no other powers. No biological triggers or control
mechanisms have been found, although little research
has been possible in this field.
If a Droyne passes the correct age without undergoing
the Iskyar casting ritual they will eventually begin to
develop into an adult, gaining the characteristics of
a male or female without the accompanying caste
characteristics. Thus failure to carry out the ritual
for several clutches of young Droyne will destroy a
community – although the situation would have to be
dire for this to happen in the first place.
Many other rituals exist. Some are recognisable as such
and can be interpreted by outsiders. There are rituals
of preparation for an endeavour or expedition, rituals of
recognition where an individual has performed to the
level expected of them and rituals of acceptance for
a new piece of equipment. The latter has similarities
both to a religious service and the naming of a ship in
human society; the new item is accepted (or perhaps
consecrated) and thereafter is part of the community.
Ships, vehicles and scientific instruments are among
the objects ‘accepted’ in this manner. They do not seem
to perform any better afterwards but the Droyne seem
happier to use them and more possessive.
A version of this ritual has been applied to Ancients
artefacts or installations. In general the Droyne have an
almost superstitious terror of anything connected with
the Ancients and will hide or avoid anything they find.
However, after a suitable ritual of acceptance a device or
place becomes tolerable to the community. A similar but
more personal ritual is used when an important item –
particularly a piece of Ancients technology – is given to
an individual to use or safeguard. This has been referred
to as a ‘ritual of permission’ by some researchers. It
seems that a device can be accepted by the community
but only those who have been personally ‘attuned’ or
‘introduced’ to it can use it.
Minor ritual-like behaviour can be seen throughout
Droyne society. It is thought that the rather strange
way Droyne have of approaching mundane tasks may
be caused by the incorporation of small daily rituals
into the activity. To what purpose this is done remains
unclear but the Droyne are a highly psionic race; it may
be that going round the houses to accomplish a simple
workplace task has some psychological or psionic effect.
One promising theory is that ritualised tasks are a form
of ‘moving meditation’ which helps maintain or develop
psionic powers.

