An alternative theory suggests that in some cases the
bizarre behaviour of some Droyne may be the result
of mental deficiencies or such a tremendous lack of
imagination that they cannot see a simpler and better
way of accosting basic tasks. This idea is favoured
mainly by those opposed to psionics or who believe
the Ancients damaged the Droyne by modifying them.
A more moderate viewpoint holds that the apparently
ritualised behaviour seen throughout Droyne society
is an artefact of the casting process, which forces the
individual into a highly rigid way of thinking. If so, then
at least some of the odder aspects of Droyne activities
are not rituals in the sense of serving a spiritual
purpose. Instead they are more like the habitual
behaviours associated with some personality disorders.

Wacky Droyne Theories:
The Cult of Grandfather

Some ‘experts’ believe the rituals found
throughout Droyne society are all connected
with the worship of Yaskoydray in some manner.
Even groups who will not speak his name
propitiate him using various euphemisms,
hoping to prevent his return or at least avoid
his wrath. Central to this theory is the idea
that Yaskoydray is a god-like figure to the
Droyne; one whose power is real and has been
graphically demonstrated.
Some go so far as to suggest that many Droyne
do not realise they are worshipping Yaskoydray.
Each curious little ritual is dedicated to him
but the Droyne do not know this. Grandfather
has essentially programmed his worship into
the daily lives of all Droyne. This conveniently
explains why the Droyne often go about simple
tasks in an unnecessarily complex manner or
sometimes display behaviour that makes no
sense to outsiders. However, there is no reason
to suppose this theory is any more accurate than
other outsiders’ guesses about what the Droyne
are up to.

UNCASTED DROYNE

AND CHIRPERS

Research into the relationship between Chirpers and
Droyne has produced two differing theories. One holds
that the Chirpers are Droyne who have lost the ability
to caste, the other that Chirpers and Droyne share a
common ancestor but are not recently related. There is
certainly a difference between Chirpers and uncasted
Droyne, although there are also many similarities. Both
are physically similar to Droyne, typically around one

metre tall and 25 kilograms in mass. Intelligence is low
in both cases, at best that of a human child with little
imagination or capability for abstract thought.
Both Chirpers and uncasted Droyne display similar
behaviour. They are generally shy and nervous, with
an uncanny ability to hide or disappear when they
wish. They have a simple social organisation, entirely
suitable for life as hunter/gatherers or undertaking basic
agriculture. Their diet is mainly vegetarian but they will
take small game or fish when the opportunity arises.
Chirpers and uncasted Droyne make and use simple
tools and are attracted to shiny objects. They will steal
anything they find attractive or interesting, making them
potential pests where other cultures are located nearby.
The key difference between uncasted Droyne and
Chirpers is that Droyne retain the ability to caste. The
offspring of an uncasted community can be put through
the Iskyar ritual and will emerge as casted Droyne;
Chirpers will not. There are unconfirmed reports that
uncasted Droyne can be subjected to a modified version
of the Iskyar ritual and will undergo changes but these
rarely produce a casted Droyne. Instead the mechanism
that produces the rapid changes soon after casting runs
wild, creating mental and physical mutations. Most
subjects die. Those that do not become deranged or
physical monsters; often both.
It is theorised that Chirpers are the natural form of
the Droyne and that Droyne communities that lose the
ability to caste will gradually revert to being Chirpers
over several generations. There may be a mechanism
that allows a Chirper community to become Droyne or
proto-Droyne but if it exists it is the province of beings
like Yaskoydray.
This theory fits with at least some of the biological
evidence. It has long been accepted that there must
have been some force for increased mutation among
the proto-Droyne, perhaps an unusually high level of
background radiation on the original Droyne homeworld.
If this was in fact a psionically controlled mechanism,
initially operating on an instinctive level, that would
account for the emergence of the Droyne where
conventional theories of evolution cannot.
If this theory is correct, Chirpers are the natural form
of the Droyne species. Proto-Droyne and later Droyne
emerged as the result of instinctive psionicallydriven forced evolution, presumably in response to
environmental pressure. Those in which the mutation
mechanism was buried too deep to be activated became
the Chirpers; those that began to change became
Droyne. After the collapse of the Ancients’ civilisation,
the means to control the forced-evolution mechanism
was forgotten but the surviving populations remained as

149

