uncasted Droyne. Given enough time they would have
reverted to being Chirpers but some intervention took
place, giving these populations the ability to activate
the forced-evolution mechanism through the Iskyar
ritual. Those populations that did not receive the
intervention in time became Chirpers.
Some scientists have postulated that a race of ‘postDroyne’ might evolve somewhere or that a population
of Chirpers might someday evolve full intellect and
become a separate race in their own right. There is
no evidence for this in Charted Space but rumours
are beginning to filter back of long-range expeditions
finding different forms of Chirpers and Droyne.

MODERN DROYNE

SOCIETY

Modern Droyne society is absolutely dominated by the
caste system. The building-block of all communities
is a family of at least six individuals, termed a
Tyafelm. A Tyafelm must contain at least one Droyne
of each caste in order to function and most have
several from at least some of the castes. Multiple
Workers are common in almost all Tyafelm, with the
number from each of the other castes determining
whether the Tyafelm has a specialist function or is
a general family grouping. Within the Tyafelm, each
Droyne has a specific role that cannot be fulfilled by a
member of a different caste. If a Tyafelm loses all its
members of a particular caste it will either break up
and join one or more other families or adopt a Droyne
of the appropriate caste.
A grouping of multiple Tyafelm (typically three to
twenty) forms a Dreskay, or extended family. The size
of a Dreskay typically ranges from around 50 Droyne
to 250; larger groupings are rare. Within a Dreskay,
one Tyafelm will specialise as the overall leader of the
Dreskay and their supporting family members, others
will provide general or specialist functions depending
on their composition. This arrangement is likely a
holdover from the original Droyne society on Eskayloyt.
Dreskayin do occasionally break up, either because
they have grown too large or due to insufficient
resources. In this case one splinter group may travel
far away, ensuring new blood enters the gene pool now
and then. A splinter group will always be a full and
functional Dreskay in its own right – it may be small
but it will be capable of supporting itself. Imbalanced
Droyne communities cannot survive and rather than
send a doomed group away to fail and die the Dreskay
will either continue to support them or instruct

150

members to sacrifice themselves for the benefit
of the community as a whole. This is one of the
reasons a Droyne might perform Krinaytsyu, a form
of ritualised suicide.
Multiple Dreskayin form an Oytrip or community.
These vary in size and type, although most are
pastoral communities whose members contentedly
work farms and businesses that support the
community as a whole. An Oytrip is well-organised
without there appearing to be any structure at all.
Everyone has a role and the chain of command is
understood almost at a genetic level. Property is
passed around as required, although normally it rests
with an individual until the Leaders decide someone
else needs it.
Members of an Oytrip are cooperative within their
home society but Oytripin do sometimes come into
conflict. Whilst alliances and cooperation agreements
are routinely brokered by Sports acting as emissaries,
the Leaders of an Oytrip cannot conceive of being
subordinate to anyone else – Leader of Leaders in
an Oytrip is the pinnacle of Droyne society. It took
a being like Yaskoydray to unify the Droyne under a
central authority and without him there is no prospect
of it happening again.
The Leader of Leaders in an Oytrip is concerned
for their own community above and indeed to the
exclusion of all else. This means that negotiations
tend to be inflexible and conflict more common
than it needs to be. Where two human communities
might stop at the brink of war an Oytrip that can take
what it needs by force will do so. On the other hand,
Warriors fight only to obtain the objectives put forward
by their Leaders. Battles are not fought to a bloody
conclusion ‘to make it mean something’ as happens in
human conflict far too often; it is either worth fighting
or it is not. Once objectives have been attained or are
demonstrated to be impossible, the Warriors assume a
defensive posture or stand down. Droyne do not fight
for hate, revenge or the honour of the flag.
Most conflict is ritualised, with only Warriors as
legitimate targets. Warriors do die but the damage
caused by the conflict is limited and other functions
of the Oytrip largely unimpaired. Support is still
provided by Workers, Sports and Technicians; Leaders
still make decisions. However in a ritual war only the
warriors may be targeted. In a ‘real war’ the whole
Oytrip is a target and attacks to weaken its structure
or economic capability are acceptable. Wars with
outsiders are always ‘real wars’ since non-Droyne
cannot be expected to honour or even understand the
provisions of ritualised war.

