Droyne society changes very little, even between
populations that have been isolated form one another
for millennia. One reason for this is the psionic
transmission of information from one generation to
another. Some members of the Drone caste have the
capability to retain vast amounts of information –
essentially the memories of their predecessors. The
amount of data they hold is sufficiently distracting
that these individuals are often seen as mystics
by outsiders, wandering around mumbling or just
standing staring into space for hours on end. When a
transfer is made, details from long ago are preserved.
Thus the universal Droyne language of Oynprith is
passed from one generation to another unchanged.
There are other languages in use by Droyne and these
have dialects or regional variations – but Oynprith
does not. Likewise each generation of Droyne knows
exactly how to perform the rituals needed to make
society work. This had great benefits but it does
mean that society can be slow to change or adapt.
Indeed, many researchers believe this transmission
of memories and information is the reason Droyne
cultures tend to stagnate; their past is still fresh and
bright, and as relevant as any idea produced by a
Dreaming Technician.

Krinaytsyu

Krinaytsyu is a highly honoured ritual in
Droyne society. Those who are no longer
useful will usually undergo it or a member of
a community might be instructed to do so to
preserve resources. Those who challenge the
judgement of the community’s Leaders and
are proven wrong will usually undertake the
ritual, as will Leaders whose decisions have
resulted in disaster. This is not punishment but
a pragmatic removal of individuals who can no
longer function in the community. It is difficult
for outsiders to understand but to a Droyne the
community is everything; they cannot leave to
find another more to their liking; someone who
no longer fits in with their community has no
place in the universe.
Krinaytsyu is a painless ritual of meditation,
which takes up to six hours. It is quite difficult
to perform and cannot be done when there are
interruptions. The Droyne can stop at any time
if there is suddenly a need for them but the
individual will need to suddenly have a strong
need to be alive. This would normally occur only
if their community needed them; fear of death
or a desire to continue experiencing life will not
cause a Droyne to halt the process of Krinaytsyu.

The Kroyloss

The Kroyloss is a uniquely Droyne social institution.
Droyne sometimes need to leave their Oytrip but
cannot live without the company of others. Even
Sports, who can function for an extended period
without the proximity of other Droyne, need to know
they have a community to serve and eventually go
back to. Those cut off from their community usually
choose to undergo Krinaytsyu. However, temporary
support can be obtained by the formation of a
Kroyloss. This is a pseudo-family, or association, of
Droyne which exists on a temporary basis. It might be
formed specifically to accomplish a task or could be a
more or less accidental coming-together of individuals
for mutual support.
Newly casted Droyne usually leave their Tyafelm to
join another but in most cases this takes place within
a Dreskay so is a simple matter of moving from one
family to another. Some Droyne engage in a period of
seeking and gaining experience, which leads to the
formation of a Kroyloss where multiple Droyne act like
a family for a time. Eventually, members will join a
Tyafelm or the Kroyloss will mature into one; Droyne
can only function for a limited time without the
support of a properly organised Tyafelm.

THE COYNS AND OTHER

PSIONIC TRIGGERS

The coyns are central to many Droyne rituals. They are
a set of metal discs, usually of gold, inscribed with
portentous symbols. Modern coyn sets typically have 36
pieces but there is some evidence for older sets with 38
or even as many as 42. Each coyn depicts a concept,
race or Droyne caste and can be used for a form of
divination in a similar manner to playing cards. Coyns
are thought to have been introduced into Droyne society
to replace some lost process by which adolescent Droyne
were assigned a caste.
The coyns can be grouped by what they depict. One
group shows the six Droyne castes and is particularly
important to the Iskyar ritual since this indicates which
caste the adolescent Droyne will develop into. It is not
clear whether the drawing of the coyns is random or
somehow influenced by the subject of the ritual – or
perhaps by the whole community. The coyns seem to be

151

