a psionic trigger but it is possible that the adolescent
Droyne’s subconscious already knows what caste it is
to be and psionically influences the coyns to trigger
the necessary transformation. Alternatively, the Drones
and Leaders of the community might – deliberately or
otherwise – guide the coyn selection to create the castes
the community needs.
Another group shows the six major races – humans,
Vargr, Aslan, Droyne, Hivers and K’Kree – which has
caused a great deal of puzzlement among scientists.
Major race status is conferred on a species that
develops the jump drive unaided but coyns have been
discovered showing some of these races before they
made the discovery. Indeed, in some cases depiction
on coyns dates from a time when the race in question
was still just another primitive indigenous species. No
satisfactory explanation has ever been put forward for
this conundrum.
Other psionic triggers exist within Droyne society. The
swirling, apparently abstract artwork associated with
Droyne and Ancients sites has a complex meaning to the
citizens of the community. It is in part a history of their
race and the community in question, in part a map and
guidebook to the settlement and perhaps also a ‘thought
pathway guide’ which conditions Droyne to follow the
correct ways of thinking and acting. The equivalent in
human terms would be for every signpost to contain
snippets of historical information and a catchy slogan.
Psionic memory triggers are used throughout Droyne
society to convey information or ensure it remains
current. Most are superficial, like those noted above,
but very important information or events can be
recorded in a great work of art. This is often the walls
and ceiling of a ceremonial space. A memory trigger
of this sort programmes the mind of any Droyne that
sees it with images which are then played as if they
were personal memories. Information is not conveyed
by the art itself; it is conjured up by the Droyne’s
subconscious in response to the trigger. The Droyne
observer does not see a recording of what happened so
much as imagines it based upon detailed instructions
fed to their subconscious.
This method of conveying information will be highly
accurate in the case of Droyne. Some other species,
notably those that had contact with the Ancients, have a
very small percentage of sensitives who can be triggered
by the artworks. Information in this case is not conveyed
very accurately; it may be fragmented, distorted or

152

nightmare-like. Indeed, some images may cause
confusion, disorientation or terror in sensitives despite
the actual content being benign. Important informationbearing artworks of this sort are normally at the heart of
a Droyne community, where outsiders are not permitted
to go. Their existence is known only to a few researchers
who have stumbled upon one in the company of a
sensitive whilst exploring a ruin or a wreck. This is rare,
to say the least.

Droyne Aesthetics

There are so many different Droyne societies that it
is difficult to make generalisations and even where
there is general conformity some Oytripin will differ
from the norm to a considerable degree. Overall,
Droyne equipment and architecture tends towards
functional simplicity in terms of structure, with
decoration varying depending on the importance
of the building or device. A weapon or machinery
space will tend to be spartan and possibly rather
ugly but a ritual chamber or an area associated with
Leaders is likely to be far more attractive. Typically,
such areas are laid out with an elegant simplicity,
with domed ceilings decorated in subtle patterns.
There is an apparent preference for silver, grey
and greyish shades of blue and green but brighter
colours are associated with some Oytrips.
Droyne apparently make art for practical purposes.
It serves as a reminder of their history and the right
decoration is necessary to some rituals. There is a
psionic component to some Droyne art that has so
far eluded the understanding of researchers. The
Droyne do not understand music and appear to have
no equivalent but they have been observed taking
part in some kind of synchronised movement. This
falls somewhere between military parade marching,
synchronised swimming and dance. Participation
can range from two Droyne to tens of thousands. It
is not known if this is a recreational pastime or has
some ritual significance.

