C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

F

I

T

H

T

E

E

N

MILITARY AND NAVY

Military and naval forces fielded by Droyne communities
vary enormously in terms of the technology available but
generally follow a similar organisational pattern whether
armed with disintegrator weapons or pointy sticks.
Organisation is along similar lines to the rest of Droyne
society – Leaders provide overall direction to the Warrior
caste, whose senior members decide how to give the
Leaders the outcome they desire.
One artefact of this system is a bias towards lowlevel efficiency. Droyne can be considered warriors
rather than soldiers; their fireteams and warbands
cooperate well and almost instinctively but lack largescale organisation or strategic vision. Small units are
ferocious, tenacious and smart in combat and do not
flinch from taking casualties if the objective is deemed
worth it by the commanders. At the same time, ‘army
level’ functions are sometimes rather poor.
In particular logistics, intelligence and technical
functions are weak. The body of Workers assigned
to support a force will do its job well but may not
coordinate properly with the Warriors waiting for
resupply. It is not uncommon for supplies to arrive
packaged in the most efficient manner possible – for
transport – and for the field force to have to waste
time waiting for peripheral items to be unpacked and
distributed before they can get at the ammunition.

This problem occurs due to over-specialisation and
a rigid way of thinking that does not always suit a
modern, technological society. The Workers simply
cannot understand and plan for the needs of the
Warriors and the Leaders are incapable of coordinating
the resupply mission because they do not think at the
right level. Thus Leaders give the order ‘provide the
supplies required by the field force at this location and
time’ and the Warriors provide a list of their needs.
The Workers then assemble and deliver the supplies
with extreme efficiency in terms of their own task – get
these items there, then. The correct items will arrive at
the appointed time but they may not be in a condition
whereby the Warriors can efficiently bring them into use.
There is no person in Droyne society capable of bridging
the gap between Workers and Warriors, nor between
any other castes. At very low (and often, very high)
Tech Levels this does not matter so much but in the
mid-technology band the disconnect can be dangerous.
It has been postulated that someday a Sport subcaste
might emerge to meet this need. This might be a
generalist go-between, a specialist ‘interpreter’ between
two specific castes or even a super-specialist such as a
Logistics Officer but there is no reason to suppose it is
likely to happen in the near future, if at all.

153

