Similar problems emerge in the intelligence and
command-and-control areas. The Sport caste contains
individuals well suited to intelligence gathering and
even analysis but strategic decisions are made by
Leaders-of-Leaders. These individuals deal with the
big picture and can incorporate intelligence data
into their high-level plans but this does not always
translate to best use of the information. There can be
a dislocation between the goals set out by high-level
Leaders and the plans made and executed by the
Leaders-of-Warriors. The larger the forces involved,
the greater the disconnect.
Technical functions in the military and naval
arena are another problem. Electronic warfare and
starship operations are functions best suited to the
Technician caste but it is Warriors who fight. Naval
ships are crewed by Warriors who may be inefficient
at their shipboard tasks. In groundside combat,
supporting functions such as electronic warfare are
carried out by Technicians in separate units. They
may have an escort of Warriors and be armed for
self-defence but they are not combat troops. They
think in terms of their technical function rather than
waging war. Cooperation with the fighting units can
be patchy and inefficient.
Droyne are most effective in combat at the very low
and very high ends of the technological spectrum,
where individual and small-unit capabilities are highly
important. They produce poor mass armies at the midtechnology to low-interstellar Tech Levels. The Droyne
are aware of their limitations and seek to offset them
by playing to their advantages. Thus a Droyne field
force typically fights as a collection of small units,
each locally very competent. Cooperation is loose and
plans are made accordingly. A Leader directing a large
force knows that their plan may not be efficiently
implemented at a high level but that the Warriors will
fight hard and well at the squad and small-unit level.
As a result, Droyne tactics in space and in groundside
combat tend to emphasise sharp raids and assaults by
small forces rather than large-scale concerted action.
This has been described as being pelted with gravel
instead of a single rock but it is potent gravel. The
situation is often bewildering to commanders who
have not fought Droyne before, since any given jab
could be the spearhead of a major attack. Indeed,
this is how a battle typically develops – a low-level
commander achieves success and reports back, and
other units are sent to strike at the same point.

154

In this manner the force is ‘pulled forward’ by junior
commanders at the front rather than being a carefully
aimed thrust directed by the senior Leaders from the
rear. An enemy force will be ‘crumbled’ by being hit
at many points and the Droyne are not afraid to send
some units on suicide attacks into the enemy rear if
it will gain a useful advantage. Overall, rather than
trying to find the point of decision and strike there,
the Droyne will hit their enemies everywhere and shift
their reserves to exploit any successes or weak points.
Against a well-organised and courageous enemy this
method results in high Droyne casualties but it can
cause an opposing force with low morale to collapse.
Even if it does not, disruption of command and
control forces enemy units onto the local defensive
rather than supporting one another, bringing about the
sort of pell-mell battle in which Droyne Warriors excel.

GROUND FORCES

Ground forces are organised in a similar manner
whatever the Tech Level of the parent society.
Voyaging Warriors are usually part of a multi-caste
group, usually supporting a Leader as drivers or pilots.
Guard Warriors are also likely to be found as escorts
for a Leader and as protectors of a task-oriented
group. They are sometimes formed into an all-Guard
Warrior unit either as a defensive asset or as the
pivot for a larger force to operate around. Battling
Warriors form the vast majority of combat formations,
although they can sometimes be encountered as part
of a Leader’s entourage. In this role they will execute
the Leader’s will or take the fight to the enemy if the
Leader comes under attack, whilst Guard Warriors
take on a more protective role.
The number six and its multiples are important in all
aspects of Droyne culture and groups of Warriors are
typically deployed in sixes. Outsiders typically refer
to a group of (usually six) Warriors as a warband,
which is a reasonable analogy but the traditional
Droyne term is a Hunting Party. There is no formal
rank structure in a Hunting Party; Warriors cooperate
well without any of them being officially in charge. In
practice, a small group of Droyne like this will rarely
be far from a Leader and can be relied upon to carry
out its duties until given something else to do. The
degree of intelligence and adaptability shown by the
Hunting Party depends on the intellect of its smartest
members. Larger or smaller groups can be assigned
to a task if necessary but six is the most auspicious
number. It seems that Droyne thinking is guided
more by this than physical or logistical considerations
associated with the task at hand.

