The standard tactical unit is made up of multiple
Hunting Parties or equivalent formations – usually but
not always six. Such a unit is termed a Fighting Group
and with a standard composition of 36 personnel can
be considered the equivalent of a human platoon.
Sometimes a Fighting Group of six Hunting Parties,
each of six Warriors, is deployed without any other
caste present but if so the unit is expected to be
within communication range of a Leader-of-Warriors.
More commonly, a Fighting Group will contain
different castes.
A force intended to operate as the equivalent of an
infantry platoon will normally contain four Hunting
Parties, each of six Battling Warriors, plus a Leading
Party and a Guarding Party. The latter is made up of
Guard Warriors and acts as the point of balance for
the unit as a whole. The Guarding Party protects the
Leading Party and holds any small terrain objectives
that are taken whilst the Hunting Parties manoeuvre
more freely. The Leading Party contains a junior
Leader-of-Warriors plus supporting personnel. These
may be Technicians if there are technical devices to
be operated and Workers to dig fortifications or carry
supplies. Sports may be present to act as scouts or
Guard Warriors to protect the leader and act as medics.
Thus a typical Droyne Fighting Group will consist of
24 Battling Warriors organised into four parties of
six and two supporting or guarding parties, also with
six members each. This is an ideal organisation and
may be incomplete or overstaffed upon occasion.
Fighting Groups often operate independently but
may be organised at a higher level into a Battling
Force. A Battling Force may be composed entirely
of Fighting Groups or may contain supporting units
of equivalent size.
A Battling Force is always led by a mid-level Leaderof-Warriors. Nominal structure is five ‘teeth’ units
and one ‘tail’ unit, although this can vary. ‘Teeth’
units are usually Fighting Groups made up mostly of
Battling Warriors but could be equivalent formations
made up of Guard Warriors if the formation’s purpose
is primarily defensive. A Battling Force has a ‘paper’
strength of 216 Droyne and can be considered the
equivalent of a reinforced company in human terms.
Composition of a Battling Force can vary considerably,
with various terms applied. For example, a unit
intended to carry out field engineering and
fortification works might contain six Fighting Group
equivalents, each of six Droyne but only one of
them might be made up of Warriors. The rest will be
Workers or Technicians who will carry out their tasks

protected by the Warriors. An aerospace defence
unit might have two Fighting Groups of Warriors
who man its weapons, one equivalent unit of Guard
Warriors who protect the installation, two Fixing
Groups of technicians who maintain the site and a
Leading Group of various castes who support the
installation’s commander.
Larger forces are made up of Battling Forces or
equivalently sized formations, usually in groups of six.
Such a formation is termed a ‘Regiment’, although
the term has different connotations to that in human
use. A combat formation would normally be termed a
Warring Regiment, with a nominal strength of 1,296
Droyne. A Warring Regiment would be commanded by
a mid-level Leader-of-Warriors.
Larger formations are rare in Droyne warfare. If more
than one Warring Regiment is deployed they will be
commanded separately and will cooperate rather
loosely under the overall command of a senior Leaderof-Warriors answering to the community’s Leaders-ofLeaders. It is not uncommon for a Warring Regiment to
be supported by various independent Parties, Groups
and Forces answering to an overall commander.
The terminology for these formations follows a
progression keyed to the number of sub-formations in
the unit and also its function:
Party (Eyotwyu) – A grouping of six or so Droyne who
have been given a short or long-term task.
Group (Aaumyats) – An organised grouping of six or so
Parties engaged in a short or long-term task.
Force (Drefusk) – an organised grouping of six or so
Groups engaged in a short or long-term task.
Regiment (Oyumyoss) – an organised grouping of six or
so Forces engaged in a short or long-term task.
Words like ‘regiment’ or ‘force’ do not necessarily
have military connotations. A construction crew
might be termed a Building Force (Aydusk Drefusk);
a large-scale mercantile expedition might be a
Trading Regiment (Syopsun Oyumyoss). In a military
context the general terms hunting – fighting –
battling – warring are generally used for formations
of the appropriate size. This is a holdover from
ancient times and is not universal. Descriptive (and
sometimes misleading out of context) terms are
often substituted. Translations into other languages
than Oynprith can be unintentionally amusing,
such as ‘Tanking Regiment’ or ‘Defending and Food
Delivering Force’. This seems to be lost on the
Droyne themselves.

155

