FORCE

COMPOSITION

A Droyne community will create the sort of forces its
Leaders deem necessary and which can be assembled.
Composition and organisation is usually informal and
very much at the level of small groups led rather than
large units commanded. Forces tend to be biased
towards ‘infantry’, which in some cases includes
flight-capable Droyne or personnel equipped with
advanced battle dress. Relatively little use is made of
vehicles in a military context; defensive weapons are
emplaced whilst those intended for mobile warfare
are either mounted on spacecraft or deployed onto a
ground mount from a landed craft.
Support units such as logistics and combat engineering
formations are staffed by non-Warriors, who can fight in
self-defence but are not considered to be combatants
by Droyne Leaders. These formations will be escorted by
Guarding Warriors and/or partially crewed by Voyaging
Warriors if they are to operate in a hazardous area. Units
of this sort may be included in a force or considered to
be a separate, supporting formation as necessary.
When operating offensively, Droyne forces tend to make
use of spacecraft for mobility rather than vehicles, if
technology permits. Given the size of forces fielded
by all but the largest communities, small but highvalue combat units are the most effective formations
that could be fielded; mass armies are almost
unknown. On the defensive, static installations and
tenacious security units provide effective protection for
settlements and installations.
A very large Droyne force can best be thought of as a
swarm of smaller ones, loosely coordinated. Each small
unit is highly effective and if overall cohesion is almost
entirely absent there is a general consensus towards
the accomplishment of goals. It is difficult to halt the
advance of such a force; Droyne are not deterred by
casualties unless their Leaders deem the endeavour not
worth the effort and smashing one small unit makes
little difference to the overall situation.

NAVAL FORCES

As with ground forces, Droyne ‘navies’ are different to
those of most other races. Organisation at the highest
level is virtually non-existent; Leaders present their
subordinates with goals and these are pursued in an
individualistic manner. ‘Individualistic’ in this context
refers to the commanders of ships rather than specific
personnel. There are Droyne ‘admirals’ but they do
not command a cohesive force in the way a human
admiral might.

156

Naval forces are crewed by Voyaging Warriors, with
some Guard and Battling Warriors aboard in case they
are needed. Voyaging Warriors are not technologically
ignorant but they do not have the aptitude that
Technicians would. Thus shipboard weapons are
generally well served and vessels are skilfully piloted but
maintenance and logistics are rarely as good.
Droyne ships tend to be more or less unique; each one
hand-built to suit the present need. Pure warships are
uncommon but those that do exist tend to be deadly.
In time of need a community might rebuild some of
its vessels for combat but for the most part large-scale
naval warfare is not a Droyne characteristic. If a naval
campaign is to be fought it tends to take the form of
infiltration and strikes by powerful single vessels. Groups
of vessels cannot really be called squadrons in the usual
sense; they are simply not organised in the same way as
those of other races.
Cooperation between vessels is informal but usually
excellent due to telepathic links between commanders.
In some cases this extends to the Droyne in charge
of divisions aboard a vessel, creating a network that
incorporates all the major functions of each ship. This
can go badly awry if the Droyne directing the force is not
a skilled tactician or makes errors in predicting where
each vessel needs to be and with what velocity but on a
small scale it can be very effective. The near-miraculous
targeting of long-range shots from beam weapons or
the convergence of fire on a single point makes fighting
Droyne ships a dangerous and daunting prospect.
Naval warfare, like ground combat, is generally
conducted on a small scale and with specific aims in
mind. Droyne do not seem to be interested in capturing
territory and are entirely willing to eliminate a threat by
orbital bombardment of civilian targets. If a ‘ritual war’
were being fought it would be a series of engagements
between Warrior-crewed starships but if conflict with
non-Droyne becomes necessary there is every possibility
that ship-to-ship combat would serve only one purpose
– to get weapons of mass destruction into range of an
enemy’s cities.
Not all conflicts come to this, of course. More often,
Warriors are landed to carry out a specific operation such
as retrieving artefacts taken from the Droyne. Escalation
through misunderstanding is likely, however. A Droyne
naval force that lands ground troops for a retrieval or
similar limited expedition might consider the matter over
and resolved once the objective has been recovered.
Continuing to attack the ships of the force would, in
the eyes of the Droyne, represent continuation or even

