C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

I

X

T

POLITICS AND

E

E

N

COMMERCE
Droyne have little political activity, internal or external,
in the usual sense. Society is rigidly structured and
Leaders are rarely questioned. When this does occur, the
usual outcome is for Leaders proven wrong to perform
Krinaytsyu. This is not a punishment – more a service to
society. A junior Leader who challenges their superiors
and is proven wrong removes themselves from the
command chain because their judgement is obviously
flawed. Superiors who are proven wrong on a major matter
will do the same, for the same reasons. Non-Leaders do
not challenge their Leaders.
Inter-community politics is almost as low-key. Even where
multiple Oytripin exist on a world they tend to their own
business and interact in a loosely cooperative way. Droyne
worlds rarely suffer population pressure or competition
for resources and other reasons for conflict rarely apply.
Droyne do not go to war with one another out of hatred
or pride, or over ownership of some remote place. They
have few reasons to fight one another and do not need to
engage in constant political manoeuvring to avoid conflict
or to gain an advantage if one were to break out.
Sports acting as emissaries move back and forth between
communities and between Leaders within them too,
maintaining a routine level of respect and cooperation. If
a community needs something it will ask and if another
Oytrip can assist without impairing its own functions
it will do so. Such interactions generally come without
strings attached or any sense of debt; the fact that a
community has given aid to another on many occasions
carries little weight when the recipient decides whether
it can afford to assist or not. The concept of goodwill
appears not to exist, at least in the usual sense. Droyne
from different communities will help one another if they
can but will always put the needs of their own Oytrip first.
This may be a result of the Droyne way of thinking; the
same lack of vision that caused worlds to remain at the
same Tech Level for millennia and prevented the Droyne
from creating a star-spanning empire once the Ancients
were out of the picture. The Oytrip is everything and
anything outside it is of no consequence unless it affects
the Oytrip. Scientific or exploration missions do venture

158

out but only in response to a perceived long or short-term
need. Exploration or expansion for its own sake is an alien
concept to the Droyne.
Interactions with outsiders are similarly Oytrip-centric.
Droyne often completely ignore attempts to interact with
them. Sometimes this is because clueless outsiders are
attempting to open diplomatic relations with a party of
Workers or Technicians but even when an approach is
made to Leaders or through a Sport acting as emissary, it
may well be ignored. If the needs of the community are
served by an interaction, it will take place. If the Leaders
or their emissary cannot see a reason why they need
to deal with an outside group they will go about their
business without acknowledging the approach.
Droyne communities do not get involved in external
politics. The antics of the humans or Vargr on the
other side of the planet are of no interest unless the
needs of the Oytrip are served. Even then, interactions
are on a one-off basis, just like interactions between
Droyne communities. Requests for aid are made and
considered; trade deals are set up or refused, and the
matter is closed. Outsiders coming to an Oytrip seeking
long-term alliance or an exclusive trading relationship
are inevitably disappointed.
It is possible to trade with a Droyne community on a
long-term basis, so long as the Oytrip’s Leaders consider
the exchange beneficial. Similarly, Droyne merchant ships
do exist, offering exotic (to outsiders at least) goods and
artworks for sale wherever they visit. However, there will
always be a reason why the Oytrip is launching a trade
mission. It may be that it needs the money – needs, not
wants; Droyne do not care about riches for their own sake.
Alternatively, the trade mission might be undertaken to
observe the reactions of outsiders to the goods or to learn
more about them. Droyne are generally not that interested
in outsiders but occasionally the desire may arise to
study them. Trade might even serve ceremonial purposes,
perhaps a distribution of Droyne goods among other races
might be part of a large-scale, long-term ritual. Reasons
vary but there is always one – Droyne do not trade for
profit unless they perceive a need for large amounts of
foreign currency. Given the nature of their society, that
would be unusual.

