C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

È

V

E

N

T

E

E

N

DROYNE WORLDS
Droyne communities vary considerably in technological
sophistication and size. Where sufficient technology
exists a world may be organised as a single Oytrip,
although communities will still be quite small. Large
cities are rare even on quite high-population worlds;
where possible Droyne prefer to live in smaller
communities interspersed with rural areas. The same
pattern of settlement is seen on low-tech Droyne worlds
but technological limitations mean that either the whole
population is concentrated in a small area as a single
Oytrip or the world will have multiple Oytripin.

ANDOR

C695735-9
Andor is located in the Five Sisters subsector of the
Spinward Marches. It is sometimes misnamed Andory,
possibly due to confusion with neighbouring Candory.
Andor and Candory are unusual; two Droyne worlds
within one parsec of one another is uncommon, to say
the least. This, along with planetside conditions well
suited to the evolution of the Droyne, is thought by
many to indicate that Andor may be the original Droyne
homeworld. The Oytrip of Andor is even less willing
than most to allow research expeditions to operate in
its territory, which again is widely considered to be
evidence of a secret to be uncovered. However, the
Imperium has never been willing to fight to the death
in order to carry out an archaeological study, so Andor
remains a mystery to this day.
Andor itself is a small world with high atmospheric
pressure. Remote reconnaissance suggests it might
once have been wetter, perhaps covered in wetland
forests suitable for the presumed evolutionary path of
the Droyne. The 60 million or so inhabitants are all
Droyne, dwelling in small cities of less than one million
population each. In between are large areas of unused
land, which has reverted to its natural state outside the
agricultural zones around each city.
The Oytrip of Andor is observed to possess a mature and
universal TL9, suggesting this Tech Level has been in
place for a very long time. Unknown devices, possibly
of Ancients origin, have been spotted but none have
been studied. There are – as always – those who believe
Andor is a treasure trove of Ancients technology and the
local Oytrip is concealing whole cities full of functional

160

devices. This is rather unlikely but has been the subject
of several vid-dramas. One of the most popular – largely
due to its low-budget awfulness gaining it cult status –
is Apocalypse Andor.
In this garish and poorly acted offering, a horde of
Droyne armed with Ancients super-weapons come
boiling out of Andor and attack the rest of the universe
for unspecified reasons. A scene in which an Imperial
Tigress-class dreadnaught is sliced in half by some kind
of beam from the planet’s surface continues to reappear
as ‘suppressed footage the Imperium doesn’t want you
to see’ on the datanets of many worlds. This sort of
cheap entertainment does nothing to ease the paranoia
felt by many about the mysterious Droyne and the fact
that Andor and Candory are Red Zoned and ringed by
Imperial naval bases suggests that the threat is taken
seriously at the highest level.
It is surprisingly easy to get an Imperial permit to visit
Andor. The process is lengthy but not difficult and
once in possession of the right paperwork Travellers
can land at the modest downport. Any ship without the
right clearance will be intercepted by craft from the
strong interdiction force, which typically centres on a
light carrier and a few destroyers. Ships that run before
reaching the surface will be fired upon but the intent is to
disable and board. Those that try to evade the mandatory
post-visit search, or which somehow slip through to
the surface, will be stopped by any means necessary
including spinal weapons fire if a suitable ship is present.
Droyne vessels are not impeded in any way.
Disappointment awaits those who reach the surface.
Visitors are restricted to the starport, which has a
modest number of non-Droyne staff who deal with
outsiders. There are museums which convey little real
information and souvenir shops that charge a lot for very
little. There are also bands of frustrated researchers and
Ancients hunters hanging around the port. Some are
prestigious scientists from top universities, others field
parties of undergraduates. The remainder are cranks
and conspiracy theorists hoping to uncover the secret of
Andor… somehow. In fact, many of them already know it
and will reveal proof for cash, drinks or help in slipping
past the security perimeter.

