The Droyne of Andor are perceived as being more
secretive than most but in reality they are simply not
interested in the wider universe. Ships voyage out on
a variety of missions but most are small and clearly
not intended for large-scale trade. Intriguingly, many
of the ships used by Andor’s Droyne are clearly of
higher technology than is available locally. Whilst the
‘Ancients Theorists’ claim this proves the local Oytrip
is hiding something, it is more likely the vessels were
obtained elsewhere.
Within the cities and the farmlands that surround them,
the Droyne live comfortable and peaceful lives. Their
society is well-ordered and runs as it has for millennia,
undisturbed by the ring of Imperial naval bases and
warships surrounding their world. These serve to keep
unwanted visitors out more than to contain the Droyne,
which suits the inhabitants of Andor. The few that do
manage to slip out of the starport or land on Andor
without permission are usually picked up by patrols of
Warriors and deposited back at the port with instructions
to leave as soon as possible. Resistance is dealt with
efficiently and without remorse.
The Oytrip of Andor does have military forces. Each
city has aerospace defence installations and artillery
forts around its periphery. These are not obvious as
such until their weapons are revealed and are sufficient
that it would take a significant force to overwhelm
them. Mobile defence is the province of small units –
typically a Battling Force equipped with grav vehicles,
combat armour and TL10 small arms – which can
respond to an incident far from the cities. Urban
defence units composed mainly of Guard Warriors
stand ready to repel an assault on the cities. It is not
known whether there is any truth to the rumours that
some kind of ‘special forces’ equipped with Ancients
technology are also available.
Although for the most part the Droyne of Andor are
uninterested in the wider universe, they do possess
a number of starships. Most are small, suitable for
carrying emissaries or a Leader and their entourage.
These ships can be encountered all across the sector
and beyond, carrying out errands that may or may not
be obvious to outsiders. Sometimes a ship will land in
a deserted area and the crew will carry out what looks
like survey work. On other occasions a Droyne ship
might land at a port and depart again without anyone
disembarking. There have been periods of over a year
where no ships arrived at or left Andor’s port, then
surges of activity that lasted months or years.
Intelligence services routinely pay a fee – albeit a
small one – for a DC&O (Droyne Confirmation and
Observation). Essentially this is a small bounty for
information that could be used to track ships out

of Andor and perhaps to build up a picture of who
the emissaries are visiting, what the scientists are
researching, and ultimately what the Oytrip of Andor is
up to.

AUITAWRY

A56689A-F
Auitawry is located in the Binary subsector of the Trojan
Reach but this distinction is more or less meaningless
since the system lies in the Great Rift. With only one
other star system within jump range and a seven-parsec
transit from there to the ‘shore’ of the Great Rift,
Auitawry is as isolated as a star system can be. This
possibly explains the survival of a technological society
there after the Final War that destroyed the Ancients.
There are some signs of damage caused during the Final
War but it appears that only some installations were
targeted and very precisely. It is not possible to say what
these targets were but clearly they were of greater value
than those that were left untouched.
Imperial scouts venturing into the Great Rift
encountered Droyne vessels in the Sarage system
and soon afterward made contact with the Oytrip of
Auitawry. The presence of extensive Ancients sites
on the world prompted an immediate interdiction
order despite the remoteness of the planet and soon
afterward a naval base was constructed at Sarage.
Sarage currently has a small human population and
status as an Imperial client state and a standing naval
force is maintained there. This is obviously connected
with Auitawry but whether it is to contain the Droyne
of that world or to prevent unauthorised access – or
both – remains unclear. The nearest non-Rift systems
are within the Aslan Hierate, so it seems to be in the
interests of the Imperium to prevent the Aslan from
gaining access to Ancients artefacts.
The Droyne of Auitawry have a modest fleet of TL15
starships and are not impeded if they choose to pass
through Sarage. It can be presumed that there are
circumstances under which they would be contained or
prevented from returning home but the Droyne are quite
capable of creating deep space refuelling points that
would permit them to bypass Sarage entirely. Instead,
the Imperium chooses to provide fuel to passing ships
if they want it and to study vessels moving through the
system. Most do nothing more than refuel at Sarage,
if they choose not to use the gas giants instead, but
occasionally a meaningful interaction takes place.
Although Auitawry is Red Zoned, it is possible to obtain
a permit to land and the Droyne are apparently willing
to allow the very occasional research team to visit the
Ancients sites. They are far from the locations of modern
cities and generally ignored by the Droyne populace.

161

