Most requests to visit are flatly refused without any
reason given and those who are caught violating the
sites are usually killed by Droyne warriors. It is not clear
why some researchers have been given access whilst
most are kept away at fusion gunpoint.
The Droyne cities of Auitawry are technological marvels.
They rise as elegant spires, seemingly fragile and narrow
until the scale of the buildings is perceived. With only
half a billion Droyne on Auitawry, the cities contain huge
expanses of nearly-empty space that the Droyne show
no inclination to fill. The result can be rather eerie, like
walking through a gigantic tomb.
The few humans ‘officially’ on Auitawry dwell at the
starport and have surprisingly little contact with the
Droyne. There are Droyne all around but they go
about their business for the most part as if the human
population was not there. Providing the humans and
other offworld races do not impede the business of
the Oytrip they are ignored other than the occasional
interaction with an emissary. The Droyne have never
explained their laws and customs but the local
population have figured out how to stay out of trouble.
This is just as well; offenders are usually given a time
period to leave Auitawry and may be killed on sight after
this period. The Droyne are not interested in excuses
and if no ship is available to extract an offender they
have only one option – flight into the wilderness.

162

Those that do escape justice are not pursued unless
there is some good reason to do so, like possession of
stolen items. There are a few small rural communities
of offworld ‘Auitlaws’ as they are popularly called. They
are allowed to live openly in unclaimed land so long
as they stay away from the cities and the Ancients
sites. Attempts have been made to use the Auitlaws as
contacts for an expedition but the Droyne have a strict
policy of only permitting ships to land at the port and
will attack vessels that defy it. It is also likely they would
destroy Auitlaw communities that assisted infiltration of
their world in this manner.
Auitawry is unusual as Droyne communities go, in
that its ships range over a wide area. At least, they
are thought to. It is not always possible to positively
identify a Droyne ship, so it is possible that some
vessels assumed to be operating out of this world in
fact have home ports elsewhere. Most ships tend to
be multipurpose vessels, carrying some cargo but also
capable of acting as exploration or scientific platforms.
It is not clear to what purpose all this activity is directed
but it seems to occur in irregular waves, with many
vessels sighted over a few years then almost none. This
may indicate long-range exploration is taking place or
there may be some entirely different explanation. As
usual with Droyne, they are not telling.

