KILENNUR

B5958BE-A
Kilennur lies in the Harlequin subsector of the Solomani
Rim. Physically, it has many similarities to Andor; it
is small, with a dense atmosphere and reasonable
amount of surface water. The world lies on the sector’s
primary main but can be bypassed by jump-1 ships.
The majority of the population are human, living in an
oppressive police state that is part of the Imperium. The
Droyne of Kilennur number around 30 million, and form
an entirely separate society. Their territory is a single
continent, which is officially considered a client state of
the Imperium but in practice is mostly ignored.
The Droyne of Kilennur were contacted by the Vilani
as their Imperium expanded. Initially assumed to
be a minor race, they were named the Nugiiri by the
Vilani and deemed not to be a threat. The Nugiiri had
an advanced society at this time, capable of building
primitive spacecraft. They had no interest in doing
so, however, and were content to be absorbed into the
First Imperium under a treaty whereby they ceded all
claims to the system and most of the planet in return for
protection and self-rule on a single continent.
The Nugiiri were unaffected by the Interstellar
Wars between the Vilani Imperium and the Terran
Confederation and the Rule of Man that came afterward
had more urgent matters to deal with than studying a
minor race on a backwater world. The human/Droyne
treaty was included in the rounds of mass-ratifications
as the Rule of Man struggled with the bureaucratic load
it inherited and after the collapse of the Rule of Man the
Droyne went about their business as before.
Kilennur had been settled by small numbers of humans,
who were isolated and fell back to barbarism during
the Long Night. The Droyne may not have even noticed
what was going on; they do not appear to have expanded
beyond their continent-reservation despite there being
opportunity. Local powers that retained starflight through
the Long Night may have visited the world but found
little of interest.
Thus when explorers from the Third Imperium arrived
they found a sizable human population living at TL1-2
and a flourishing but insular TL8 society of Droyne. The
ancient treaty was located in the archives and deemed
suitable by the Imperials, who sent emissaries to
Kilennur to re-ratify it and renegotiate if necessary. The
‘Nugiiri’, as they were still called, politely ignored the
effort and eventually the emissaries concluded that the
old treaty was still considered to be in force. Settlement
and development of Kilennur took place, generally
ignored by the Droyne, and gradually a technological and
industrial base was established.

Kilennur eventually became part of the Solomani Sphere
when the autonomous region was established and was
reintegrated into the Imperium during the Solomani Rim
War. There was a little skirmishing in the system and
a token resistance on the ground but for the most part
the war passed Kilennur by. Post-war security measures
resulted in the current police state and there have been
incursions into Droyne territory in the post-war years.
These have been quickly dealt with, usually by forces
of Droyne Warriors who give the intruders one chance to
withdraw then open fire.
Tacit support by the world’s human government for these
incursions, which might eventually lead to annexation
of the reserve and its natural resources, has at times
led to confrontation between the Droyne and human
populations. This drew Imperial displeasure, in the form
of a visit from a party of senior officials in the sector
administration. Their message was clear – the Droyne of
Kilennur have a treaty with the Imperium guaranteeing
their territorial sovereignty and the Imperium honours its
treaties even if member worlds will not. The squadron of
heavy cruisers in orbit served as a sufficiently broad hint
and the number of incursions sharply dropped.
Whereas the overall Tech Level of Kilennur is 10,
the Oytrip remains at a stable TL8. It does not have
a spaceport as such but each of the cities has its
own landing area and may operate a few craft. The
Droyne of Kilennur seem to have no interest in space
but occasionally receive visitors from other Droyne
communities. Other than this, they have little contact
with outsiders and seem contents that way.

TUBROYLLUFOTYUSK

A674999-D
Tubroyllufotyusk is located in the No Return
subsector of Crucis Margin. Its system is sparse,
with three other terrestrial planets and no gas giants
or planetoids. Tubroyllufotyusk itself is dry, with
a standard atmosphere. Its taint does not seem to
affect the four billion or so Droyne living there but
the human minority – around three percent of the
population – require filter masks.
There are actually several Droyne communities on
Tubroyllufotyusk. The dominant one is known to
outsiders as the Oytrip of Tubroyllufotyusk, although its
own people may use a different name. This dominant
Oytrip has a population of around three and a half
billion, dwelling in large and small cities scattered
across the entire planetary surface. In addition there
are many other Oytripin whose societies range from
the hunter-gatherer level up to around TL9. These
communities interact with their starfaring brethren but

163

