remain independent. They occupy lands between the
cities of the dominant Oytrip and are apparently well
respected. For reasons no outsider can fathom these
communities have no inclination to combine or to
change their lifestyles.
For a Droyne world, the Oytrip of Tubroyllufotyusk is
unusually influential in the local region. Numerous
small powers exist, along with many single-world
states, and whilst Tubroyllufotyusk does not pursue
a political agenda its presence can be a stabilising
influence. The Oytrip has been known to act decisively
and without warning when its interests are threatened
and has the power to smash most of the nearby
polities. As a result they tend to tread carefully in their
dealings with one another.
In the past, the Oytrip of Tubroyllufotyusk has been
known to send out surges of vessels for various
purposes. In some cases this has been a veritable orgy
of trading, either direct or in the form of long cruises
between distant worlds. On other occasions there has
been no discernible pattern or purpose to the missions.
A bewildering range of vessels were involved, of all sizes,
and so far as they could be tracked some of these ships
made long and apparently aimless journeys whilst others
carried out a series of short there-and-back hops.
The Oytrip has been stable at TL13 for as long as
records about it exist. It is impossible to date cities
by appearance or architecture – they are spotless and
little is known about changes in building style over the
centuries. Descriptions and very rare images from longago visits suggest that nothing has changed in centuries
or millennia.
The Droyne of Tubroyllufotyusk are more open to visitors
than most but this is not saying much. A small human
staff at the starport provide advice on how to avoid the
worst pitfalls that can befall an unwary Traveller but
there are still some unusual hazards. It is quite possible
to starve to death in one of the cities whilst Droyne
workers ignore pleas for aid. As with many Droyne
cities there are areas where Workers are left to carry
out simple tasks. Leaders do not need to go there and
someone who wanders in and gets into trouble cannot
rely on Workers to raise the alarm on their behalf.
Likewise, it is possible to get into an area that concealed
dangerous machinery. These are clearly marked for those
who understand Droyne symbology but someone who
cannot tell one squiggle from another may not realise
until far too late where they are.
Those who take the time to learn the correct rituals
can obtain an audience with a Leader-of-Leaders and
conduct business. It is rare for a request to be granted

164

but occasionally a petitioner finds they suddenly have
the support of an entire high-technology Oytrip, at
least for the present time. Those who simply want to
sightsee are ignored by the population unless they
enter a sensitive area. The Droyne will remove someone
whose presence interferes with their business but will
ignore someone in mortal peril if there are other tasks
to attend to. The best-guess interpretation of this
behaviour is that the Droyne consider anyone stupid
enough to ignore the warnings is irrelevant and society
is better off without them.
The Oytrip of Tubroyllufotyusk has a large fleet of
starships but no starship construction yards as such.
Vessels are more or less hand-built, usually on the
ground but occasionally in orbit. Researchers have
been able to witness – albeit from a distance – the
extensive role of ritual in the construction process.
Components must not only be mounted correctly but
must also be positioned ‘just so’ when they are laid out
ready for fitting and there are what appear to be rituals
associated with their transportation and storage. It
may be that these are the Droyne equivalent of safety
checks and handover procedures. There is no human
equivalent for the practice of stopping work every few
hours to conduct some kind of ceremony involving part
or all of the workforce.
The end result of this rather inefficient process is a
beautiful ship that will serve for many years and which
seems to be a source of pride – or perhaps an icon
representing the honour of the Oytrip. Ships appear
to be venerated; the Droyne of Tubroyllufotyusk are
protective of them in a way that exceeds their respect
for cities or most objects. Some ships are associated
with particular Leaders; others seem to be passed from
one user to another. Some researchers would phrase that
differently, suggesting that a Leader is presented to the
ship rather than the other way around.
It seems that the web of contacts maintained by
the Oytrip of stretches far further than most Droyne
communities. During the Psionics Suppressions, which
began in 800, a large and well-organised expedition
left several Imperial worlds, made rendezvous and
headed directly for Tubroyllufotyusk. The Oytrip took the
refugees in and has received several further migrations
since. It is likely that these are students or practitioners
of the psionic arts who fear persecution but this has
never been confirmed. There are also enclaves of Droyne
on various worlds, some of them far off, who profess
membership of the Oytrip of Tubroyllufotyusk even
though they seem to have no contact with it.

