Forgetfulness

Forgetfulness may be a more powerful version of the
Invisibility ability. It causes the target to suffer amnesia,
covering a period equal in hours to the PSI of the
attacker, up to the moment of the attack and perhaps
for a few moments after. These memories are not
eradicated, merely suppressed, and can be recovered by
medical or psionic means. If the target fails a Difficult
(10+) INT check, the amnesia is total and they do not
realise anything is wrong. If the check is made or the
target is presented with evidence they have forgotten
the past few hours, they may begin to realise something
is wrong. All they can recall is a confused jumble but
this may give some clues or put them on the path to
recovering their memories.
Check: Difficult (10+) Telepathy (1D seconds, PSI)
Reach: Close
PSI Cost: 6

Invisibility

Invisibility falls within the Telepathy talent since it
acts upon the minds of others but it is believed to be
available to most Droyne and Chirpers as an instinctive
ability. The user is not actually invisible; they can be
seen as normal by cameras, motion detectors and other
devices, or by psionically shielded individuals. What
happens is that the target fails to notice the ‘invisible’
Droyne due to distractions, something more interesting
or some other circumstance.
The Invisibility ability is activated instinctively by
untrained individuals but can be selected by anyone who
has the Telepathy ability. If uncontrolled, it activates
whenever an individual feels threatened. If active, it
affects all unshielded minds within 400 metres. This
can be awkward if the sudden disappearance was
unintentional. To be affected, a being must possess at
least rudimentary intelligence. A Droyne or Chirper could
thus become undetectable to a snake or a shark but very
primitive creatures (and plants) will not be affected.
Those affected by the Invisibility ability will be quite
unable to spot the Droyne and will temporarily forget
about them. Even attempts to draw attention to the
‘invisible’ Droyne will fail. A shielded individual may
be amused to see their companions fiddling with
equipment, gazing intently at a discarded pizza box
or updating their social media status whilst a party of
Droyne wanders by but will find they also fail to notice
attempts to point the Droyne out.
There are limitations to this ability. People under threat
will snap back to focus and be able to perceive the
‘invisible’ Droyne providing they realise the threat is
coming from them. A shielded Traveller who strikes

166

their companion to try to alert them will more than
likely find themselves the target of annoyance or even
retaliation, even as Droyne Warriors are levelling fusion
guns. However, the Invisibility ability is relatively subtle
and the target’s subconscious can break through with
a warning. Essentially the target’s conscious mind is
directed to other things but their eyes still see and their
brain still processes the information. A gun pointed
at the Traveller will usually be enough of a threat to
make them take notice. There are innumerable tales of
ambushes by Droyne along the lines of ‘they were right
on top of us before we saw them’ or ‘we had no idea
they were there until they opened fire’.
Ordinarily, spotting a Droyne using Invisibility requires
a Difficult (10+) Recon or INT check. In a situation
where an ‘invisible’ Droyne presents a clear threat to
someone, such as aiming a weapon, or causes such
a disturbance that a Traveller cannot fail to notice it,
the Traveller may make an Average (8+) Recon or INT
check to realise what is happening. The difficulty falls to
Routine (6+) if the Droyne causes harm to the Traveller.
It is still possible that the Traveller might get hurt yet
fail to perceive the Droyne who just shot them. In this
case the Traveller will misinterpret the situation and
believe the attack came from some other source but can
make another check each round until the reality of the
situation finally intrudes.
A Droyne who is spotted can disappear again once the
target loses track of them, either during a chaotic fight
or due to losing line of sight.
Check: None
Reach: Very Long
PSI Cost: 0

Transfer

The Transfer ability allows a Droyne to transfer anything
they know to someone else and is often used to train
young Droyne to perform various tasks. If used in this
manner, a Droyne can teach another to perform any skill
they know, up to their own level of skill. For this reason,
large Oytrips often have specialist master-mentors in
important skill areas, ensuring the Oytrip has plenty of
personnel capable of performing in key areas. Training
someone requires one whole day (including some time
to rest, eat and perform the appropriate rituals) per skill
level and skill levels must be taught one at a time.
It is also possible to transfer memories or vast amounts
of information to a recipient in this manner. There may
once have been an idiot-savant caste, which could
have acted as a repository for all this information but
it apparently became extinct. Any modern Droyne can
absorb a great deal of information but it is possible to

