become overloaded when carrying around thousands of
years of memories or huge volumes of complex data.
The ideal candidates usually come from the Drone
caste, combining a relatively low INT with high PSI.
Apparently, not thinking too much is the best way to
keep everything straight, although even so these living
memory-repositories are often distracted to the point of
barely being able to function. They will pass on some
or all of their memories upon command, but only at the
direction of Leaders.
Whichever way it is used, the Transfer ability requires
PSI 10+ and normally requires drugs, Boosting by
other Droyne or certain closely-guarded transferfacilitation rituals.
Check: Average (8+) Telepathy (1 day per skill level, PSI)
Reach: Medium
PSI Cost: 20

CLAIRVOYANCE

Droyne clairvoyance includes all standard abilities
plus unique ones arising from the intensely strong link
between a Droyne and their home Oytrip.

Homing

All Droyne, Chirpers and related races have an innate
ability to know how far they are from their home Oytrip
and in what direction. This is permanently active and
functions whether or not the Droyne has received any
psionic training. It may be that this ability is connected
with the distress most Droyne suffer when they are away
from their Oytrip. If so, the Homing ability still functions
in Sports but may not cause as much distress so long as
they have a home to return to. If an Oytrip is destroyed
or a Droyne is ejected from it for whatever reason, the
Homing ability will cease to function and the Droyne
may well lose the will to live. The role of the Oytrip can
be temporarily and partially replaced by the creation of
a Kroyloss, or fraternity, but the need to belong to an
Oytrip is such that sooner or later a wandering Droyne
will leave the Kroyloss for an Oytrip or will work towards
changing the fraternity into a proper community.
Check: Routine (6+) Clairvoyance (1D seconds, PSI)
Reach: Personal
PSI Cost: 0

Link

All members of a Droyne family (Dreskay) have a psionic
Link, whether they are trained in Clairvoyance or not,
allowing them to locate any other member of their
Oytrip. For the 15 seconds the Droyne can see and hear
everything their Linked family member can and will
know exactly where they are.

Check: Easy (4+) Clairvoyance (1D seconds, PSI)
Reach: Medium
PSI Cost: 1

AWARENESS

Droyne have access to all the usual Awareness abilities
plus two unique ones.

Inner Eye

The Inner Eye ability may be connected to the casting
abilities of Droyne. It allows control of metabolism and
organ function and can be used to temporarily offset the
effects of injury. When this ability is activated, damage
is applied to the Droyne’s PSI characteristic before END,
then STR, then DEX as normal. If the Droyne does not
run out of PSI, the natural regeneration of PSI points
will remove this ‘stored’ damage without physical harm
to the Droyne.
Check: Easy (4+) Awareness (1D seconds, PSI)
Reach: Personal
PSI Cost: 0

Rejuvenation

The Rejuvenation ability is used to avoid the effects
of aging. Any time a Droyne with this ability suffers
a reduction of any characteristic due to age, chronic
illness or similar causes (not physical injury, poisoning
and the like), the loss may be taken on PSI instead.
Once the Droyne’s PSI reaches zero they can no
longer avoid the effects of aging. It is believed that an
advanced version of this ability may exist, useable only
with PSI 15+ and it was by this means that Yaskoydray
achieved immortality. There is no way to prove this, and
no other immortal Droyne are known to have existed.
Check: Routine (6+) Awareness (PSI)
Reach: Personal
PSI Cost: 0

DROYNE PSIONICS AND

OTHER SPECIES

When using psionic abilities against non-Droyne, PSI
point costs for all abilities are doubled. This is due to
differences in brain structure, ways of thinking and
other factors not well understood by non-Droyne. It is
rumoured that specially trained Droyne psi-warriors may
exist who are able to use their powers at normal cost
against specific species or even all species but this may
be an artefact of Sixday-evening action-adventure shows
rather than any form of formal research.

167

