Ship-Heart Chamber

Droyne vessels sometimes follow the practice of other
races, with a pragmatic control centre similar to a
standard cockpit or bridge. This is not to the liking
of many Oytripin, however. It is preferred, where
possible, to use a ship-heart chamber. This is more
grandiose and ornamental than a mere bridge and
fulfils slightly more functions. A ship-heart chamber
will typically have a domed ceiling, with a dais for the
ship’s Leader. The command chair is reminiscent of a
throne and it is here the Leader will receive visitors,
petitioners and emissaries.
The ship-heart chamber is gorgeously decorated with
iridescent patterns depicting the vessel’s history
and Oytrip affiliation, and serves as a briefing room
(giving DM+1 to Tactics checks for any pre-planned
operation), commercial activity centre (giving DM+1
to Broker checks) and coordination chamber for other
activities such as surveys, groundside exploration
or a construction project undertaken planetside but
commanded from the ship. On ships over 5,000 tons
the ship-heart chamber also acts as a flag bridge. Its
size is proportional to the displacement of the vessel,
with additional crew positions added as size increases.
A very large ship-heart may have small antechambers,
tables for refreshments and positions for supporting
personnel such as the ship’s most important Social and
Priestly Drones.
A ship-heart chamber consumes 30 tons plus one ton
per 100 tons displacement of the ship. It costs MCr1
per 100 tons of ship. A Ship-Heart Citadel can also be
fitted. This consumes an additional 10 tons and raises
the cost to MCr1.25 per 100 tons of ship. A Ship-Heart
Citadel is surrounded by heavy bulkheads (and gains the
benefit of that modification) as well as having its own
life support system. It can be ejected from the ship but
this act must be accompanied by funeral rites for the
vessel – it will self-destruct as soon as its heart is no
longer present.

Droyne Accommodation

The standard system of accommodation aboard a
vessel or starship, using cabins and common areas,
is nonsensical to Droyne. Instead accommodation is
arranged in groups of six sleeping pods surrounded by a
working and living area. Droyne accommodated in podclusters are assumed to have all necessary supporting
facilities within their cluster, including everything from

armouries to a galley. Additional space can be provided
if desired, making the vessel more suitable for highranking Droyne. A pod-cluster can be set up as an
emergency shelter for crew, allowing them to remain
safe if the ship is depressurised. This version of the
pod-cluster can be jettisoned from the ship when critical
damage is taken.
Additional spaces can be simple common areas, paid for
at the normal cost, but may be configured as ceremonial
spaces at additional cost. Ceremonial spaces are
beautifully decorated and contain statues, raised seating
for important officials and everything necessary for inflight ritual observances. A minor ceremonial space is
sufficient for routine rituals, whereas a major ceremonial
space can be used for almost any ritual. Cost and
tonnage depend on how many Droyne are expected to be
able to attend, subject to a minimum size.
A ceremonial space can be configured as a shelter in
case the ship takes heavy damage. Such a space has
its own life support equipment and discreet lockers
for vacc suits in an antechamber and is protected by
heavy bulkheads. A ceremonial citadel of this sort will
usually survive even if the ship is blasted apart and
is in some ways equivalent to a vault (see page 47 of
High Guard). It is not uncommon for the ceremonial
space to be located close to the ship-heart chamber,
in which case the access corridor between the two
will also be heavily protected. Both can remain linked
together in the event that a ship is destroyed around
them or can be ejected separately.

Component
Pod-Cluster (capacity
6 Droyne)
Ejectable Pod-Cluster
Ceremonial Space,
Minor
Ceremonial Space,
Major
Ceremonial Citadel,
Minor
Ceremonial Citadel,
Major

Tons
20

Cost
MCr5

24
6 + 1 per
attendee
20 + 2 per
attendee
12 + 1 per
attendee
40+2 per
attendee

MCr6
MCr0.25 per
ton
MCr1 per ton
MCr0.75 per
ton
MCr1.5 per ton

169

