The Tenentsyo Mercantile Expedition Vessel is, like many other Droyne ships, named in
outsider databases for the first known example of the type. Its designation translates from
Oynprith as ‘Mercantile Expedition Vessel’ – not so much a trader as a vessel used by a
Leader to make deals on behalf of the Oytrip. The fabulously decorated hull will impress
anyone and to its crew it is a guarantee of effective communications and auspicious deals.
Computer capability is large, enabling a variety of applications to be run in support of the
vessel’s mission.
Hull form is cylindrical, with accommodation forward on the upper deck and engineering
spaces aft. In the centre of the ship is a combined ceremonial and ship-heart chamber,
two decks high and thoroughly wasteful of space by the standards of most races. However,
this chamber is the heart of the ship’s mission. It is where the Leader commands their
crew and the members of the expedition, where they conducts their business in the
correct surroundings and where rituals to make deals more auspicious are held. Without
this chamber, this would be just another cargo hold with a jump drive; with one, it is an
extension of the Oytrip.
The vessel is designed to land at its destination, where everyone can see its splendour, and
favoured trading partners will be invited into the ceremonial chamber at the heart of the ship.
The cargo bays can be entered from the lower part of this chamber, allowing the Leader to
show off the Oytrip’s goods. Visitors are not allowed forward or aft on the upper deck and on
some ships there are no access points at lower-deck level. Droyne with suitable wings can fly
up to the entry points; anyone else would have to disable internal gravity.
The Tenentsyo-type Mercantile Expedition Vessel is lightly armed and may carry parties of
Warriors or Workers in its low berths if the mission requires it. More commonly it runs with a
Leader and a suitable set of attendants. This complement can vary but a typical mercantile
mission might use the following configuration:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Mission Leader (Leader-of Leaders)
2–3 Emissaries (Sports)
Ship Leader (Leader)
Pilot (Warrior)
3 Engineers (Technician)
Crew Manager/Steward (Social Drone)
4 Gunners (Warriors)
Ritual Overseer (Priestly Drone)
2 Ritual Performers (Drone)
4 General Performers-of-Tasks (Worker)

This gives a typical complement of around 20 Droyne, which is sufficient to permit long
voyages away from the Oytrip. Vessels of this sort might also be used for exploration or
to conduct routine diplomatic visits but for the most part they combine commerce and
diplomacy in the region within a few parsecs of their home Oytrip.

173

