The Yubotsio-type is used for a variety of military and naval purposes. It is capable of acting
as a transport for ground troops or as a naval patrol ship. Much larger vessels are deployed
by some Oytripin but this class is common among those that require only escorts for their
diplomatic and trading ships plus the occasional expedition into potentially hostile territory.
The vessel uses a rounded, flattened-cylinder hull, with command spaces located at its heart.
These are co-located with the ceremonial chamber and together these make an armoured
‘citadel’ in the centre of the ship where crewmembers can shelter in the event of heavy
damage. Forward of the command chamber on the upper deck is a set of six pod-clusters for
the use of the crew.
A vessel of this type typically runs with a crew of exactly 36 commanded by a Leader-ofLeaders rather than a Leader-of-Warriors as it is not a pure warship. A ship intended only to
fight might be crewed entirely by Warriors but this is an ‘expedition’ vessel, which protects the
interests of its Oytrip by projecting power but may find non-military solutions to the problems
it encounters. Thus the crew contains numerous Warriors as gunners and pilots but also
Technicians to run the drives, Drones to ensure a harmonious crew and to conduct the proper
rituals to ensure mission success and Workers to support them. Sports may be carried as
negotiators, scouts and infiltrators.
Forward of the command spaces on the lower deck is another pod-cluster chamber, this
one normally used by a complement of up to 36 Warriors. Such a unit is typically termed a
Fighting Group and is commanded by a Leader-of-Warriors. Another 36 personnel, usually
Warriors, can be carried in low berths. Aft of the command spaces are drive and engineering
spaces, as well as fuel tanks and the tiny cargo hold.
Armament reflects a preference for long-range combat and energy weapons, with two
bay-mounted particle accelerators. These are backed up by a laser battery for small-craft
engagements and fusion gun barbettes in case of close action. Ideally, this can be avoided
using the vessel’s respectable agility and standard tactics call for a long-range engagement if
at all possible.
Employment of these vessels ranges from patrol and escort work to raids on enemy territory. A
Yubotsio can deploy two Fighting Groups of warriors, given time to wake half the complement,
but lacks the small craft for a rapid assault. It is not uncommon for one Fighting Group to
be dropped from the ship to glide into action using their own or a mechanical set of wings,
covering the landing and deployment of the second group. Whilst an Oytrip may have many
powerful warships, it is small vessels like this one that deal with minor problems and so are
far more likely to be encountered than a larger ship.

177

