A03/48956

ECLIPSE SHIELD

The eclipse shield is a large but lightweight shield carried
by some Warriors. It is said to resemble a planet in partial
eclipse, with a crescent shaped primary edge extending
well beyond the user’s flank and a concave secondary
edge. This permits a Warrior to use a firearm in the
other hand, turning their body to receive protection then
angling back to shoot. Eclipse shields are almost always
near-transparent, giving observers the impression of a
shimmering ‘force-field’ protecting their owners.
Eclipse shields are not intended for close combat,
although they will serve if necessary. Their role is to
stop projectiles and energy weapon discharges. Most
are produced in a right-handed design but a large
complement of Warriors may have some left-handed
shield users to cover the opposite flank. In melee
combat, an eclipse shield functions as a normal shield
but against firearms the user is treated as being in cover
(Protection +8, as shown on page 74 of the Traveller
Core Rulebook). A second Droyne can shelter behind
the shield of another but cannot make attacks without
moving out from its cover.
In addition, an eclipse shield has a small power cell and
a layer of microcircuitry set into its outer face. This is
often used to project a bright light from the front face of
the shield, which extends a little way above and below the
normal visual spectrum. This has the effect of dazzling
thermal and optical sensors, and providing illumination of
a target. The light is unidirectional, so even if the shield is
transparent the user is not dazzled. In low-light conditions
this imposes DM-2 to attack rolls made against those
behind the shield.
Bright light drains the power cell in an hour or so but a
comfortable level of illumination can be maintained for
weeks. The circuitry can also act as a heat exchanger
for a limited time. It can be expended in a single pulse,
reducing the damage from an incoming energy or cold
attack by 1D. Thereafter it is useful only as a physical
shield. More commonly, the shield’s hot/cold capability
is used to augment the comfort and gravitas of a Leader.
A group of warriors standing around a Leader can modify
local conditions to maintain a comfortable temperature
within the ring of shields. This requires at least four
shields forming a ring, with shields no more than two
metres apart. Enough eclipse shields can protect a large
group from a storm or freezing conditions for several hours.

Weapon
Eclipse-Shield

TL
12

Range
—

Damage
1D

Kg
2

Cost
Cr20000

Traits
—

181

