A11/58231

FIGHTING-ARMOUR

Fighting-armour is the Droyne equivalent of combat
armour but incorporates a mechanism for mimicking
the movement of wings. It thus does not impose a
penalty on checks requiring balance. In addition,
a Droyne equipped with fighting-armour can unfurl
their wings to slow a descent. It is not possible to fly
wearing this armour without additional thrust but a
gliding airborne assault can be made from a starship or
suitably high position.
The armour itself is very similar to standard combat
armour. It has a flexible base layer with rigid armour plates
over it, life support and cooling systems, and tactical
displays. Power cells are good for 24 hours of operation.
This is longer than most races could stand being encased
in armour but if the suit is donned with the right ceremony
a Warrior’s mental resilience is boosted sufficiently to
make long-duration operations tolerable.
Standard fighting-armour can be augmented with one
or both of two accessories. The first is a short-duration
thrust pack. This is a cheap chemical-based device
held in a canister with a protector plate to prevent the
exhaust gases from burning the user. It gives a total
of one minute of thrust sufficient to allow a running
take-off from level ground. There is no throttle; the
canister burns a packet of chemicals and delivers one
round of full thrust each time it is activated. Level flight
requires one burn every other round; a glide from greater
altitude requires one burn every three rounds. Once fuel
is expended the Droyne can make a controlled fall but
cannot maintain a glide for more than a few seconds. A
thrust pack costs Cr100 and is likely to be available in
large numbers.
The second accessory is essentially the innards of a grav
belt, mounted into receptacles on the armour. The unit
costs Cr60000 and cannot be used without the armour.
When in place the belt allows up to four hours of flight
before it needs recharging. These are not standard issue
for most Droyne Warriors but when they are used it is
typical to use the grav unit to get into position close to a
target then shut it off and glide/fall onto the enemy. This
reduces electromagnetic signature and increases speed.

Armour Type
Fighting-Armour

Protection
+15

TL
12

Rad
130

Kg
14

Cost
Cr92000

Required Skill
Vacc Suit 0

183

