RITUAL AND PSIONIC

ITEMS

There is considerable overlap between ritual and
psionic items and practices in Droyne society and
it is not always clear where one ends and the other
begins. Droyne ritual items fetch considerable sums
on the collectors’ market in some areas. This is not
least because they are so carefully guarded. Indeed,
someone known to have stolen items of ceremonial
significance will be hunted without regard to laws or
territorial boundaries. However, the Droyne are not
so single-minded as to plough ahead no matter what.
They will engage outsiders to make a retrieval or punish
the miscreant, or may launch a covert strike. Direct
action is more likely than a legal challenge in most
cases, although an emissary may be sent to ask the
Leaders (whomever that is perceived to be) of the thief’s
community to return the stolen items.
Small items such as statuary or robes, personal
decorative items and the like typically fetch Cr100–
500. However, provenance is always a factor. An item
proven to have come from a famous Oytrip or associated
with major events can sell for millions of Credits,

186

although there will always be far more fakes than real
items. As might be expected, Droyne relics are difficult
to obtain due to their lack of interaction with outsiders.
There will always be a few people who think they can
sneak or bribe their way in to steal something of value
or who will follow a party of Droyne around demanding
they sell their regalia.
Very few items appear on the open market. Even if they
are salvaged from a starship and legally owned under
interstellar law, most Droyne artefacts are considered to
remain the property of the Oytrip. Those that understand
such things may try to buy back legitimately salvaged
items but forcible recovery is still likely. Thus valuers
and experts willing to determine the provenance of
items tend to operate in secret, with a web of contacts
to keep time-wasters and law enforcers away.

Psionic Drugs

Droyne make routine use of psionics-related drugs. It is
not clear if these are safe or effective for use by other
races, nor if there are multiple recipes. This seems
likely, since widely separated Droyne communities are
not guaranteed to have access to the same ingredients.
The effects of Droyne psi-drugs are similar to those
described on page 203 of the Traveller Core Rulebook.

