C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

O

N

E

DROYNE TRAVELLERS

Playing a Droyne can be quite a challenge. For the
most part Droyne are driven to be part of a community
with other Droyne, to the point where they will commit
ritual suicide if driven out or otherwise deprived of the
company of their Oytrip. One solution to this problem is
for the Travellers to play a group of Droyne sent to carry
out some mission or for a lone Traveller to play a Sport
who intends to return home when their task is complete.
Young Droyne normally transfer to a different family
within their extended family group but it is not unknown
for one to transfer to an entirely different Oytrip. A
Droyne Traveller might have become lost or detached
during this process and may wander for a time before
reaching their destination and settling down. The
Droyne might also be a member of a Kroyloss or
fraternity. A Kroyloss would normally be a group of other
Droyne but events might cause the Droyne Traveller to
feel a sense of belonging with a group of non-Droyne.
This would certainly be an unusual situation that might
provide for adventure ideas later in the campaign.
Alternatively, a Traveller can play a Droyne who has
been driven from or lost their Oytrip. The latter is
a traumatic event, which might be a plot point in
subsequent adventures. Most Droyne would commit
suicide through the Krinaytsyu ritual but some – known
as Krinaytsyuni – do not feel the urge to do so or have
some goal that must be accomplished before they can
die. These may be tortured individuals or may have
psychological problems, but the way they manifest will
be different to other species. A loner Droyne might be
a very strange individual, or may suppress everything
along with the desire to depart their lonely existence.
Anyone choosing to play a Droyne must keep in mind
that they do not think or act like humans. Nor do they
fit in seats made for humans. Devices may be too big
for them to comfortably hold or use. A lone Droyne will
stand out where people are familiar with them and any
Droyne will stand out where they are not well known.
Playing a Droyne is likely to be challenging but could
be an interesting experience for the Traveller – and all
their companions.

DROYNE FLIGHT

The wings grown by Droyne vary in their proportions. In
many individuals they are vestigial and cannot support
flight under any circumstances. Other Droyne have
wings large enough to permit flight in some conditions
and to act as a gliding aid in others.
When determining the wing size for a given Droyne, roll
1D. On 1–3 the Droyne has vestigial wings. On 4–5 the
Droyne has small wings, and on 6 they have large wings.
If a Traveller really wants to be able to fly, they may
add enough points to the value rolled to get the wings
they want but must subtract that number of points from
any combination of STR, DEX and END. A Droyne with
vestigial wings can still fly with the aid of a mechanical
wing set.
A Droyne with large wings (or using a mechanical
wing set) can fly on a world of Size 5 or less with
a Standard atmosphere and on a world of Size 7 or
less with a Dense atmosphere. Small wings allow
flight on worlds one Size code smaller. It is possible
to make a short glide or to slow a fall using wings on
worlds two Size codes larger than one where flight
would be possible and to do so on a world with a Thin
atmosphere of Size 4 or less. A glide or controlled
fall must be in a downward direction, with no more
than two metres of lateral movement for every three
metres downward. Gliding uses the Flight skill (see
page 188). Falling under control can use the Flight or
Athletics (dexterity) skill.
STR 4+ is required to be able to fly, no matter how
large the Droyne’s wings may be. If the Droyne is
injured and STR drops below 4, they will be unable
to fly but may be able to make an emergency landing.
A Droyne can fly quickly and engage in manoeuvres
for a number of combat rounds equal to their END,
after which they become fatigued (see page 76 of the
Traveller Core Rulebook). Distance-covering flight can
be maintained for five minutes per point of END before
becoming fatigued.

187

