Fast or combat flight takes place at speeds of up to 30
kilometres per hour, Speed Band Very Slow or around
50 metres per combat round. This is halved in cluttered
conditions such as a forest or the inside of a space
station. Steady distance-covering flight averages around
10 kilometres per hour or Speed Band Idle.

Flight

The Flight skill governs the use of Droyne wings to fly or
control a fall and can be used in unusual situations with
the Referee’s permission. For example, a Droyne might
‘fly’ instead of using standard microgravity manoeuvres.
This is tricky, and would require some high-difficulty
Flight skill checks unless the Droyne has experience of
this sort of thing, but it could be done.
More commonly, Flight skill is used to carry out
manoeuvres with precision or grace. Landing is
Routine (6+) under most circumstances but making
an emergency landing without coming to harm is more
tricky. The check would be Average (8+) at least and
possibly higher if the Droyne is struggling with adverse
conditions. A Droyne whose END has dropped to zero
whilst flying fast around a set of crags in a gusty wind
will face a check of Difficult (10+) level or more,
suffering 1D damage for every point of negative Effect.
Flight skill also limits what the Droyne can do whilst
flying. A flying Droyne can never receive a DM higher
than their Flight skill level to carry out any physical
task, including striking with a weapon. The best sniper
in Charted Space will be impaired by their flapping
wings, air currents and minor disturbances in relative
motion path.

OTHER DROYNE
SKILLS

In addition to Flight, Droyne have access to skills no
other race uses. They are also highly unlikely to learn or
use certain skills, known as termed Black Skills. These
can be learned in unusual circumstances but a Droyne
who knows them will always be on the fringe of the
Oytrip’s society. They are still part of the community but
are ‘not quite right’ in some way. It is as if their spirit is
tainted by the knowledge they carry.

Ancients Tech

Most Droyne suffer from a superstitious terror of
Ancients devices and sites, and will not go anywhere
near them if they have the choice. Those designated
to use, tend or simply preserve knowledge of Ancients

188

devices may not be any less afraid but are able to
conquer fear through knowledge. The Ancients Tech
skill is used when figuring out the function of a device
or installation and more commonly to use a device that
has been preserved since the time of the Ancients.

Appeal

The Appeal skill deals with what might be termed
internal diplomacy in Droyne society. External
interactions are governed by Diplomat as usual but
Appeal is used when a Droyne wants a superior or the
Droyne in charge of a different group – this might be a
force of Warriors or an entire planetary Oytrip – to hear
what they have to say. Appeal is also used by Sports
acting as emissaries when conducting diplomacy with
other Oytrips. Success ensures the Droyne has observed
the correct formalities – if not they will not be heard at
all – in addition to presenting the case well. A Drone
with a good idea has no chance of persuading her
Leader to implement it without using the Appeal skill
successfully but might approach a Sport to act as a
go-between. She would still need to make an Appeal
check to get the Sport to listen but the difficulty would
be much lower.

Art (Droyne)

Droyne art is not purely decorative. It conveys
information and may even play a part in the correct
function of an installation or device. A starship that
is decorated properly will ‘feel’ better to its crew and
might actually perform better. A basic level of skill in
Art (Droyne) allows the creation of proper decoration for
routine purposes. At skill level 2 the Droyne can create
informative and ‘improving’ art, such as that which is
felt to make a starship jump better. At skill level 4 the
Droyne can create psionic trigger-art, which conveys
detailed information by triggering the observer’s brain to
essentially imagine what the artist wanted them to.

Caste (caste)

There are six caste-related skills – Warrior, Drone and
so forth – which can only be received by members of
that caste. This skill indicates how well the Droyne
can perform the routine duties of their caste, including
rituals and operation of devices. It is tied almost
directly to rank within the caste. Droyne do not have a
formal rank structure in the usual sense but each time
a Droyne gains a level in their caste Profession skill they
are likely to take on more responsibility. The Leader-ofLeaders with the highest Caste (leader) skill in an Oytrip
is in overall charge, even if there is – for example – a
Leader-of-Warriors with a higher Caste (leader) skill.

