Flight

The Flight skill is dealt with in the section on Droyne
flight, on page 188. A Droyne who receives Flight but
whose wings are too small to fly may instead select one
of Drive, Flyer, Recon or Survival.

Outsider (race or culture)

The Outsider skill is used when conducting dealings
with non-Droyne. A high skill level does not suggest
the Droyne has any particular liking for the species in
question but they will understand the subject culture.
This permits diplomacy to be undertaken without utterly
confusing the outsiders but has wider implications.
A Droyne with the Outsider (Vargr) skill, for example,
is aware that Vargr conduct trade and warfare very
differently to Droyne. They may be able to predict what
goods will sell well in Vargr markets or how a military
campaign will unfold. A skill check can be used to make
reasonable and general predictions about members of
the subject race or culture.
In addition, where responses of the subject are
important – such as using the Broker skill to negotiate
a good deal – the Droyne cannot receive a DM greater
than their Outsider skill with the relevant culture. The
converse is also true; an outsider trying to use advanced
negotiating skills will find they are lost on a Leader who
does not comprehend much of what is being said. A
Leader who is supported by those with this skill can use
the highest level available as an enabler for their own
skills. If, for some reason, the Droyne decide to explain
what they are doing or why, the Outsider skill is used
to frame this in terms the outsiders can comprehend.
Since few Droyne have this skill, much of what they say
and do remains utterly incomprehensible to outsiders.

Outsiders

Kyussesk is a Sport, who has Outsider (Imperial)
2. A party of K’Kree arrive at his Oytrip’s
capital wanting to trade. No-one is available
with the specific Outsider skill relating to
K’Kree, so Kyussesk is assigned to advise his
Leader-of-Leaders. The K’Kree start blundering
around cluelessly, as if they have no idea how
to conduct a diplomatic visit! The Leader-ofLeaders is perplexed and worried that this might
escalate into a major incident but Kyussesk
– who is considered to have Outsider 0 for all
cultures – is on hand to advise.
Kyussesk understands that outsiders generally
do not know the proper rituals and are perhaps
not aware that they should send a Sport (or
equivalent) to the Place of Supplication for
Agreements – they probably do not know it
exists! He explains this to his Leader-of-Leaders
and is assigned to guide the new arrivals through
the correct process. This is difficult, even with a
good translation device, since Kyussesk does not
understand the idiom and figures of speech used
by his guests. Indeed, all he knows is that they
do not think like Droyne and that he must make
allowances for their failure to understand the
correct way of behaving.
By the time Kyussesk has guided the K’Kree
party through the Ritual of Approach – thus
enabling the Leader-of-Leaders to interact with
them – another Sport has been found who has
Outsider (K’Kree) 2. The Leader-of-Leaders
delegates negotiations to a representative who
has Broker 3 but this is limited to skill level 2
by the highest Outsider (K’Kree) skill present.

Prediction

The Prediction skill represents the talent for predicting
future events using the coyns. Whether or not the
future is preordained is an open question but a
successful prediction can assist a group of Droyne
in their endeavours. A prediction is no small matter;
it must be undertaken at the centre of a solemn
ceremony and cannot be made until the previous one
has run its course.
A Droyne that wishes to make a meaningful prediction
must pass an Average (8+) Prediction check. If it is
failed the prediction is meaningless and the effort
cannot be repeated for 1D days for every point of
negative Effect. If the check is successful, the Droyne
selects six coyns at random (see page 206). Neutral
coyns indicate possible events but do not influence the
outcome of the prediction. Positive coyns are worth
DM+2 to be applied to any one check each during the

190

period of the prediction but negative coyns nullify one
positive coyn each. Positive and negative coyns may also
indicate events or participants.
In addition to any DM gained from positive coyns, the
Leader for whom the Prediction was made also gains a
‘floating DM’ equal to positive Effect of the check. Each
positive coyn DM must be applied to a separate check
but this floating DM can be used however the Leader
wishes. This cannot make the impossible doable but so
long as an action is physically possible this DM can be
used to make it happen.
A prediction is in force for 1D days plus 1D days for
every positive coyn DM gained. Thus if a Prediction
succeeded with Effect +3 and the net result was two
positive coyn DMs, the prediction is in force for 3D

