days. The Leader can apply DM+2 on any two checks
within that time and an additional DM+3, all at once or
in parts, to any checks including one already benefiting
from a positive coyn DM.

Black Skills

Black Skills include Carouse, Deception, Gambler,
Persuade and Streetwise. All are connected with deceit
or activity alien to the Oytrip-oriented lifestyle of the
Droyne, such that learning these skills or engaging in
these activities somehow diminishes the Droyne doing so.
A Droyne with any levels in Black Skills suffers a negative
DM equal to their highest Black Skill level on checks for
advancement in their career and continuation.

CREATING A DROYNE

TRAVELLER

Creating a Droyne Traveller is generally similar to other
races but there are some significant differences. Droyne
mature very suddenly as a result of casting and undergo
significant changes. There is no formal rank and no
equivalent to SOC; a Droyne’s position is rather more
loosely defined. Within each caste there are rough levels
of ‘value’ – how highly valued a given Droyne is by their
Oytrip – but this is not a hard-and fast structure, and in
any case a member of the Leader caste can command
members of any other caste no matter what their relative
value may be. This value is largely determined by the
Droyne’s Caste skill.

Characteristics

At the beginning of Traveller creation, an immature
Droyne’s six characteristics are determined. The first five
(STR, DEX, END, INT, EDU) are rolled on 1D+1 rather
than the usual 2D. These will be later modified when
caste is determined. The sixth (PSI) is rolled on 2D as
it does not depend upon caste. Droyne do not have SOC
at all.

Droyne Traits

All casted Droyne gain the following Traits.
Close Combat Aversion: Droyne dislike close combat,
possibly due to their light bone structure which makes
blows more damaging. Melee is not quite a Black Skill
but few Droyne learn to fight without weapons or other
mechanical aids. A Droyne struck with a weapon that
relies on impact, such as a baseball bat or club, suffers
an additional point of damage per 1D rolled. In addition,
all Droyne suffer DM-2 when fighting unarmed as their
natural reaction is to flinch away rather than taking
decisive action.

Droyne Claws: All Droyne have a sharp claw on their
hands and feet, which can be used in combat if
necessary. This is a last resort; Droyne dislike close
combat and will avoid it if at all possible. Claws do
1D+2 damage if employed as a weapon and use the
Melee (natural) skill. They are more commonly used as
a tool or an aid in gripping some surfaces. A Droyne that
can dig their claws in gains DM+1 when trying to remain
anchored or to keep hold of something.
Wings: All Droyne have wings, although some are
vestigial. Newly casted Droyne must determine wing size
by rolling 1D. Wings are vestigial on a 1D roll of 1–3,
small on 4–5 and large on 6. Droyne who have small or
large wings automatically gain Flight 0.

Careers

A Droyne’s career begins at age 12 with the casting
ceremony. It is not possible to create an uncasted
Droyne as a Traveller, since they possess little more
than animal intelligence. Chirpers and uncasted Droyne
would normally be treated as animals, although enclaves
may exist which are smarter and have their own career
paths. Caste may be chosen for Travellers, or randomly
determined by rolling 1D.
1: Worker
2: Warrior
3: Drone
4: Technician
5: Sport
6: Leader
The score rolled is also the ‘caste number’ and may be
relevant later in Traveller creation.
Once caste is determined, the young Droyne will develop
quickly into the adult form of their caste. All casted
Droyne immediately gain +1 to STR, DEX, END, INT and
EDU. Effectively, this is the same as rolling 1D+2 for
those characteristics but the timing of this increase may
be significant in some cases.
The following modifiers are then applied to the
characteristics of the Droyne at the beginning of their
first term.
Worker: STR +2, END +4
Warrior: STR +3, DEX +1, END +2
Drone: DEX +1, INT +3, EDU +2
Technician: DEX +2, INT +3, EDU +1
Sport: DEX +1, END +1, INT +2, EDU +2
Leader: INT +4, EDU +2

191

