The Iron Droyne Rule

Earlier editions of Traveller had a rule whereby a
Droyne must roll their caste number or more on
2D each term. Failure meant ejection from the
Oytrip and ritual suicide. Hardcore traditionalists
may wish to use this ‘Iron Droyne Rule’ during
Traveller creation.

Ranks, Mishaps and Mustering Out

Continuation Checks

A continuation check is a 2D roll with Caste skill
level used as a positive DM and caste number as a
negative DM. The check is of Simple (2+) difficulty.
If it is passed, there is no additional effect. If failed,
the Droyne is ejected from the Oytrip. Most commit
suicide at this point but a Traveller may assume this
is where their adventuring begins.

CAREERS

Droyne do not have ranks in the usual sense. The rank
number is simply a guide for the Referee and Travellers,
and titles are an indicator of how a Droyne regarded
by the Oytrip. Low-value Droyne will be given the most
risky tasks and may even be sent into suicidal situations
if there is some benefit to the Oytrip.

Droyne Travellers do not have careers in the usual
sense. They are members of the same caste from
the time of their Iskyar ritual until they die. Career
progression is determined by success in their caste’s
field of expertise alone – a Droyne can never change
caste. Any Droyne with Black Skills receives a
negative DM equal to their highest Black Skill level
on all checks for advancement and continuation.

Mishaps are treated differently for Droyne than other
races. No Mishap automatically forces the Droyne to
leave their career. However, any time a Mishap occurs
the Droyne must make a continuation check.

BASIC TRAINING

There is no mustering out process as such. Droyne serve
their Oytrip until they die or are no longer useful – in
which case they usually die anyway. Droyne Travellers
resolve their mustering out process, which indicates their
circumstances at the time they begin adventuring but
this can be omitted for most Droyne, who will either still
be serving their Oytrip or beginning their ritual suicide.

All Droyne undergo psionic testing (see page 196
of the Traveller Core Rulebook) upon casting, before
their first term. In addition, all Droyne receive all the
skills from their caste-specific skills table at level 0
plus one from that table (rolled randomly) at level 1.

Droyne Life Events
2D
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

192

Event
You help build a prestigious starship. Choose to gain either one level in Engineer, Electronics or Mechanic, or
increase rank by +1.
Your immediate Leader dies or is discredited. Make a Caste check. If you succeed, your rank is increased by
+1 when you join a new Leader. If you fail, it is decreased by –1.
You gain a Black Skill. Gain one level of Carouse, Deception, Gambler, Persuade or Streetwise
Your daily efforts are in keeping with the expectations of your Leaders. Gain a level in your Caste skill.
The Oytrip struggles through difficult times. Make a Caste skill check. If successful you suffer no ill effects. If
you fail, your rank is reduced by –1.
The Oytrip endures.
The Oytrip prospers. Your diligent work brings you into contact with an important Leader. Make an Appeal
check. If successful you gain this Leader as a Contact.
You come into contact with outsiders. Make an Outsider check. If successful, you gain an Ally from outside
the Oytrip. If you fail, you gain a level of Outsider in a specialty of your choice.
You are taken on a voyage, or lead one. Gain one level in Pilot, Astrogator, Engineer or Electronics.
You are selected for advanced psionic training. Gain PSI +1.
You come into contact with Ancients technology. It is frightening but fascinating. You gain one level of
Ancients Tech.

