MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Your Oytrip comes under attack. In desperation the Leaders order your fellow Workers to shield the remaining
Warriors with your bodies. Many die but the Oytrip is saved. Gain your choice of Gun Combat, Melee or Medic
but suffer –D3 to STR, DEX or END due to your wounds. Make a continuation check.

2

A junior Leader challenges the seniors in your Oytrip. The situation is confusing and you try to ignore it but
eventually you are forced to choose between them. If you side with the junior Leader you are driven from the
Oytrip and join their Kroyloss, which breaks up soon afterward. Muster out and begin your adventuring now. If
you did not side with them, nothing happens to you. These things are above mere Workers. You must still make
a continuation check.

3

A dangerous situation arises and the workers are ordered to make great sacrifices to save the Oytrip. If you behave
correctly, you suffer injuries and lose –1 in each of STR, DEX and END, and must make a continuation check. If
you do not behave correctly, you betray your role in the Oytrip and are rightly driven from it. You may continue to
betray your Oytrip by mustering out and beginning your adventuring now or may commit ritual suicide as is correct
in these situations.

4

Bad things occur. The Leaders do not confide in you because you are a lowly Worker. You thus have no idea
what happened but the Oytrip endures. Make a continuation check but suffer no other ill-effects.

5

Your Leader undertakes an expedition that goes badly wrong. You are forced to survive outside Droyne society
for several months. You gain an immediate level in Outsider (any) and may choose to take one level of
Streetwise. However, this is a Black Skill and will diminish you as a Droyne. Make a continuation check with
the negative DM for any Black Skills you may have.

6

You behave incorrectly. Your rank is reduced by –1. If this takes it below zero you are ejected from the Oytrip.
Make a continuation check.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You accompany an eminent Leader and gain their respect for your diligence. Your rank is increased by +1.

4

Your fellow Workers ask you to raise concerns with your Leader. Make an Appeal check. If successful, you are
heard and the situation is positively resolved. Your rank increases by +1. Whether you succeed or fail, gain one
level of Appeal.

5

Your Leader asks much of you. If you follow their directions, gain one level in any of: Carouse, Deception,
Gambler, Persuade or Streetwise. These are Black Skills and you are diminished by knowing them. If you refuse
to obey, you are ejected from the Oytrip. It is not the place of Workers to challenge their Leaders.

6

You do good work and your Leader is pleased. Gain one level in Profession, Drive, Flyer or Appeal.

7

You work every day. The Oytrip prospers.

8

Your Leader takes you on an expedition into the wilds. Gain one level of Recon or Survival.

9

You have an idea. If you dare suggest it to the Leader, make an immediate Appeal check. If successful, your
rank is increased by +1. If you fail, your rank is reduced by –1 and you are given onerous tasks to perform. If
you keep quiet, this is good because Workers should not be bothering their Leaders with trivialities. Gain one
level of skill in an appropriate Profession or in Caste.

10

You are involved with outsiders and find them less confusing than most others of your Caste. Gain one level in
Outsider skill and a Contact outside the Oytrip.

11

You are involved in the creation of a starship and you learn a little about how it works. Gain one level in any
Electronics, Engineer, Gunner or Vacc Suit.

12

Your Leader is honoured with possession or guardianship of an Ancients artefact. You tend and sometimes carry
it for him. Gain 1 level in Ancients Tech.

195

