MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Your Oytrip comes under attack. Desperate measures are required. Make a Leadership check. If you are
successful, your response is correct – whether you won the fight or not. Gain your choice of Gun Combat, Melee
or Tactics. If you fail, lose –D3 to STR, DEX or END due to your wounds. Make a continuation check.

2

You challenge the seniors in your Oytrip. Your challenge fails but you remain convinced you are right. You are
driven from the Oytrip with some companions, who form a Kroyloss. This collapses after a time, leaving you
alone in the universe. You are determined to prove you were right all along and this conviction overrides your
urge to commit ritual suicide. Muster out, begin adventuring and gain an Enemy in your old Oytrip.

3

A dangerous situation arises and the Oytrip looks to you for leadership. You are able to rally the nearest Droyne
and prevent things getting any worse but are injured in the process. You suffer injuries and lose –1 to each of
STR, DEX and END and must make a continuation check. You gain an Ally within the Oytrip.

4

A band of non-Droyne enter the Oytrip and attempt to subvert your way of life. They cause utter mayhem and
steal some items before being caught. If you take the stance that they did not know any better and should be
educated rather than punished, you are ejected from the Oytrip and sent to carry out that education. Muster
out and begin adventuring career with an Ally who is an outsider. If you choose to punish them, you gain three
Enemies, all of them from outside your Oytrip.

5

You undertake an expedition which goes badly wrong. You are forced to survive outside Droyne society for several
months. You gain an immediate level in Outsider (any) and may choose to take one level of Streetwise. However,
this is a Black Skill and will diminish you as a Droyne. Make a continuation check with the negative DM for any
Black Skills you may have.

6

You behave incorrectly. Your rank is reduced by –2, because this is particularly serious among Leaders. If this
takes it below zero you are ejected from the Oytrip. Make a continuation check.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You work closely with your Oytrip’s most senior Leaders and gain their respect. Your rank is increased by +1.

4

A Worker comes to you with serious concerns. If you support them, you gain one level of Leadership but also a
Rival among your own Oytrip. If you put the uppity Worker in their place you gain a level of Caste (leader) and
an Ally among your own Oytrip.

5

You are sent with a diplomatic party to a starport or installation run by non-Droyne. It is a cesspit of incorrect
behaviour! If you choose to learn the ways of the outsiders, gain one level in any of Carouse, Deception,
Gambler, Persuade or Streetwise. These are Black Skills and you are diminished by knowing them. If you prefer
not to sully yourself, you gain nothing.

6

Your leadership keeps everything running smoothly. Gain one level in Appeal, Diplomat, or Leadership.

7

Everything is as it should be.

8

You leader an expedition into the wilds. Gain one level of Recon or Survival.

9

A non-Leader comes to you with an idea. It has merit but will upset the traditional order of things. If you
supported the idea and took it to the Oytrip’s senior-most Leaders, gain a level of Appeal. If you put the
underling in their place, gain a level of Caste (leader).

10

You are forced to interact with among outsiders. Gain one level in Outsider (any) and a Contact outside the
Oytrip.

11

You are involved in the creation or operation of a starship. Gain one level in any of Astrogation, Tactics (any) or
Vacc Suit.

12

You are honoured for a time with possession or guardianship of an Ancients artefact. Gain 1 level in Ancients Tech.

205

