Positive Coyns: Fire, Heat, Light, Droyne, Aspiration,
Achievement, Justice and Phoenix
Negative Coyns: Void, Darkness, Cold, Noise, Sacrifice,
Defeat, Death and Beast
For example, a Droyne Leader wonders what the future
holds for her. She decides to consult the coyns, drawing
six at random. She receives Death, Achievement,
Chance, Light, Leader and Vargr. Each coyn can be
interpreted as being somewhat literal – thus ‘Aslan’
would mean an Aslan or the Aslan Hierate – or much
more generally. It may also be a positive/negative/
neutral indicator rather than something physical. The
order in which the coyns are selected is usually rigid but
sometimes a prediction might be made by placing them
in any order.
In this case the Droyne interprets the coyns as follows:
Death: An important event will begin with death, serious
injury or perhaps the destruction of an object.
Achievement: The person or object will be prestigious or
important.
Chance: The incident will be low-probability or entirely
unexpected.
Light: This coyn is interpreted as ‘positive’ in this
instance. The Droyne knows things will work out well in
the end.
Leader: The Droyne must act decisively.
Vargr: Vargr are involved somehow, either individually or
as an empire.

Just days later comes news that a prestigious Droyne
starship has been attacked and left crippled. Artefacts
of great importance have been taken from the wreck.
While others are gathering evidence and seeking clues,
the Droyne knows what she must do. She gathers her
followers and sets out for a notorious freeport in the
region, which is run by several retired Vargr spacefarers.
If she is right, the artefacts will be sold at the freeport
and she will be there to intercept them.
How could the coyns know what happened or was about
to happen? There are many mysteries surrounding the
coyns, and it may be that the process of selecting and
interpreting them has done nothing more than assist
the Droyne’s subconscious in deciphering the available
clues. Whatever the reason, the Leader now has a plan
of action and intends to carry it out. Whether she is right
or not is up to the Referee.

Determining Caste

A Traveller’s caste can be determined using coyns
instead of rolling or choosing a caste from the table
on page 191. If this is done, caste is determined by
selecting coyns at random until a caste is drawn. In
Droyne society the sooner a caste is drawn, the more
important the Droyne will be within it. Additional coyns
are considered to indicate events of the Droyne’s life,
which may have implications for the Oytrip as a whole.
Travellers and Referees can use these coyns and their
importance on the Droyne’s future life as adventure
hooks during a campaign.

207

