C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

T

W

O

DROYNE AS TRAVELLERS

Playing a Droyne is not easy. Being a Droyne who is
not part of a community is extremely hard – Droyne are
simply not prepared for this way of life by anything they
experience in their life with the Oytrip. The Traveller
must therefore keep in mind both how Droyne would
normally act and the effects of being isolated from
everything the individual knew.

LIFE OUTSIDE THE

OYTRIP

A Droyne who leaves the Oytrip remains culturally a
Droyne. They may be tortured by life among outsiders
and might well develop some very strange personality
quirks but that should not be taken as an excuse to
adopt human mannerisms and behave like any other
Traveller. Instead, the Traveller’s way of thinking will
be shaped by their caste but may evolve over time.
New experiences will alter the Droyne’s perceptions of
the universe but for the most part they will crave the
familiar and correct way of life of the Oytrip.
One coping mechanism observed in ‘orphaned’ Droyne
is the creation of a pseudo-Kroyloss. A proper Kroyloss
contains Droyne of all castes and is in many ways
a mini-Oytrip. Things are done there as they are in
the Oytrip and the situation is comforting. A pseudoKroyloss substitutes outsiders for Droyne and tries to
shoehorn them into the roles played by different castes.
Thus the ship’s captain is obviously a Leader and the
engineer is a Technician. The orphaned Droyne may
be baffled and upset when these substitute-Droyne do
not act correctly for the role the orphaned Droyne has
created but a pseudo-Kroyloss offers the best chance for
long-term survival.
Some orphaned Droyne are so desperate for the
comforting correctness of the Oytrip that they become
deranged. The tale of the Droyne Technician who
created an imaginary Oytrip out of stray cats is almost
certainly apocryphal but both Droyne and cats behave
in ways that make this story borderline plausible. Other,
only slightly less bizarre, coping behaviours have been
observed. This retreat into delusion is very dangerous
but a return to reality can be worse. The collapse of a
Kroyloss (real, pseudo or imaginary) can trigger the urge
to undergo Krinaytsyu.

208

Not all cases are so extreme but the orphaned Droyne
will try to understand the vagaries of the world outside
the Oytrip in terms of life within it. People will be
assigned an imaginary caste and expected to behave
accordingly and the Droyne will tend to think and act as
they always have. Eventually the orphaned Droyne may
emerge as an independent being but this will take time
and even then their ingrained patterns of thinking will
show from time-to-time.
Workers will tend to be obedient towards authority
figures once they accept non-Droyne in that role. They
will look for tasks to perform and be uncomfortable
when idle. An orphaned Worker will try to help in almost
any physical labour they see and will misinterpret
instructions or even random conversation as orders to
work. The Droyne may eventually break this conditioning
but will remain a very physical person who takes the
direct approach to any problem.
Warriors will also be obedient and, unlike Workers, are
content to wait for a situation they can deal with. In the
interim they will take care of their body, weapons and
equipment. This may mean sudden bursts of physical
activity such as push-ups or sprints back and forth along
the ship’s main corridor. At other times the Warrior will
simply stand immobile for long periods. Warriors will
not join a task unless asked or ordered to; their job
is to guard everyone else while they work and it will
simply not occur to a Warrior that he is expected to
help unstick the ATV from this mud pool. Even if they
break their old way of thinking, a Warrior is still inclined
towards violence – and if violence is not necessary or
will not solve the problem, then the problem belongs to
someone else.
Technicians will fiddle with things. They will dismantle
devices – not to see how they work but to practice in
case they need to repair one. A Technician left alone in
a room full of technology will learn all they can about
it but will probably not think of actually doing anything
with it. They will latch on to any technical job they
see and try to assist, even if that means little more
than passing spanners to those doing the actual work.
Technicians may also attempt to organise workspaces,
perhaps rearranging the galley to promote efficiency in
particular tasks or conducting a visual inspection and
inventory of every tool aboard a ship. Eventually they

