may break through this conditioning but a Technician
will still struggle with the concept that they could solve
that problem without waiting to be told to do it.
Drones are likely to suffer the most when separated
from the Oytrip. Those who survive will tend to adopt
a nurturing role. A Drone might make an excellent
administrative or even executive officer aboard a
ship but a terrible captain. More likely, they will seek
domestic problems to solve, acting as a mediator
between crewmates or something of a snitch whenever
someone does something the leader of the group really
needs to know about – in the Drone’s perception,
anyway. A Drone might find a comfortable niche running
the domestic side of a starship, taking over the galley
and acting as a steward or may start offering spiritual
guidance to all and sundry. Even once acclimatised
to the outside world, Drones are inclined to find a
community to become the heart of.
Sports are the best adapted of all castes to survive in the
outside world but their actions have no meaning if not
taken on behalf of a community. Sports will outwardly
seem well adjusted, acting on their own initiative and
apparently being quite comfortable among non-Droyne.
However, they are driven to seek a community or cause
to serve and can become fanatically – if quietly – loyal
to that cause. There is no guarantee the Sport really
understands the community they act on behalf of, which
can lead to serious gaffes. A fully adjusted Sport will
still tend to think in terms of ‘my ship and crew, wrong
or right’ and may be willing to take actions that will
horrify their crewmates.
Leaders are capable of subordinating themselves to
higher Leaders but the situation for crewmates is a
bit like keeping a wolf. To remain alpha, the senior
members of whatever group the Leader joins must
always be alpha. Friendly behaviour will seem like
subordination to a Leader, who will naturally be inclined
to take charge. Outsiders who treat the Leader as
a subordinate will have few problems but once the
alpha/beta situation no longer exists the Leader will
unconsciously challenge their superiors all the time.
This is not malice or lack of respect; it is simply that a
Leader must lead. Orphaned Leaders can do well in a
very formal environment like a military unit or a warship
but the typical free trader crew are likely to find him
insufferable. Once a Leader acclimatises, they may
begin to accept the new and less formal social dynamic.
They will still be inclined to find problems and take
charge of solving them.

INCORRECTNESS AND

INDIVIDUALITY

One underlying factor throughout Droyne society is
the concept of ‘correctness’. Droyne are rigid in their
thinking, largely due to their highly specialised caste
structure. Being surrounded by others who behave
‘correctly’ is comforting to a Droyne and the converse
is also true. ‘Incorrect’ behaviour and situations are
disturbing – and incorrectness is the order of the day
outside the Oytrip.
An isolated Droyne is bombarded with incorrectness
every waking minute. Being unable to instantly identify
Leaders or Drones among people thronging a starport,
seeing obvious Warriors doing what Workers should be
or a Technician directing others in their tasks… these
are assaults on the Droyne’s sense of rightness. Being
outside the Oytrip is like being cast adrift in a sea of
chaos. The Droyne cannot comprehend much of what
is going on and will be fearful of not knowing what to
do. The idea that nobody minds if the Droyne randomly
decides to read a datanet entry or goes for a coffee is
incomprehensible and distinctly frightening.
The worst aspect for many orphaned Droyne is that
they do not know what to do. Even a Leader or Sport is
lost without a cause to serve. The Oytrip was everything
and decisions were based on its best interests.
Now, with no Oytrip there is no starting point for the
decision-making process. For other castes this may be
worse. There was always someone to tell them what to
do or well established procedures and rituals to guide
their progress.
Thus, to the puzzlement of most other species, it is
freedom that most frightens orphaned Droyne. They
know they are expected to act correctly but they have
no idea what correct behaviour would be. Thinking
for yourself is considered by most races to be a
fundamental right and responsibility but for a Droyne it
is not much short of an abomination.
A Droyne in this situation has three choices – somehow
impose a semblance of order and correctness on
their immediate surroundings, throw away everything
that makes them a Droyne and embrace the chaos of
freedom or meditate to a quiet and dignified death.
Those who take the former path tend to become
obsessive and sometimes paranoid but can be ‘saved’ by
reintroduction into a correct society. Those who embrace
freedom of thought and action are beyond salvation. The
correct course of action, according to other Droyne, was
to die but the individual has chosen instead to live as
incorrectness personified.

209

