C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

T

H

THE HIVERS

R

E

E

The race known as Hivers are a highly unusual
species, both physically and culturally. Much of what
is ‘known’ about them is contradictory and confusing,
although physical facts at least can be confirmed by
observation. Hivers are highly intelligent and have built
a vast interstellar culture known to outsiders as the
Hive Federation. Within it are a great many intelligent
species, each optimised to a particular role. The Hivers
do not dominate their Federation in the usual sense
but have apparently created a culture of cooperation
within which each species has a place and is content to
remain within it. They are attributed a powerful ability
to manipulate others, enabling them to co-opt whole
cultures without conflict or the possibility of later revolt.

PHYSIOLOGY

An adult Hiver resembles a fleshy dome about one
metre across, with six limbs spaced equally around
the circumference. For this reason they are sometimes
referred to as ‘starfish’. All of the limbs are about a
metre long and end in manipulator tentacles. Limbs can
function as hands or feet interchangeably although two
of the limbs have additional functions. One is a ‘head’
with eyes on stalks; it does not contain the brain and is
thus not really a head in the usual sense, but beings with
heads tend to think of it that way. The opposite limb is
more or less the same as the other legs/arms but has a
single modified finger for transferring genetic material.
Hivers vary in base colour from pink to tan, with brown
or grey patches which become more prominent with
age. Their skin is leathery and tough, with a respiratory
stoma (or blow-hole) at the top of the dorsal hump. The
stoma connects to a set of six-lobed lungs. In some
individuals these are lined with olfactory membranes;
in others they are not, so only around half of all Hivers
have any sense of smell. At the centre of the body is the
brain case, surrounded by a 12-chambered heart in the
shape of a ring.
On the ventral surface of the body is a super-cloaca
through which food is taken, waste removed and
genetic material exchanged. This opening, along
with the respiratory stoma, can be shut off at will by
internal sphincters.

211

