Hivers have only one gender. Genetic material is
routinely (and apparently subconsciously) passed
between Hivers when they meet by a process of
‘handshaking’ with the reproductive limb, then into
the cloaca. Handshaking also serves a social function
and appears to have a beneficial effect on the Hivers’
mental state.
Hivers have six eyeballs on their primary limb. Three
see in the usual visual spectrum, three in the infrared.
Between the eyestalks and a little behind them are six
ears. This limb can be used for stability when moving
but as this restricts vision it is more common for a Hiver
to walk on five limbs with the ‘head’ up. Hiver hearing is
roughly the same as that of humans but peak response
is in the very low frequencies. Hivers have no vocal
chords, relying on visual signals for communication.

REPRODUCTION

Reproductive cells are generated internally and stored
in a reproductive pouch. When Hivers ‘shake hands’
they transfer some of these cells from their own
reproductive pouch to that of another Hiver by way of
the reproductive limb. Even without this process, a
Hiver will produce offspring but they will be genetically
identical to the parent. Handshaking ensures that a
healthy generic mix is maintained and emissaries are
often sent over long distances for no other purpose than
to shake hands with everyone they meet.
Approximately once every 40 days a Hiver will produce
a larva, which drops out of its cloaca and crawls away.
Hivers have no emotional attachment to their offspring
at this stage of their development and no parental
instinct whatsoever. Larvae are killed if they are
inconvenient or if circumstances are not right for the

212

development of young Hivers. Those that survive their
parent fend for themselves as animals for a year or so
until they begin to develop intelligence. At this point,
the young Hiver is driven to seek out a community and
will be accepted as a juvenile if it manages to reach
one. From this point on the young Hiver is a person and
receives education and protection like any other member
of the community.

PSYCHOLOGY,
MANIPULATION AND

PSIONICS

Hivers are notorious for their ability to manipulate
others into doing what they want. This capability is
due to their need for interspecies cooperation during
early evolution and their innate desire to avoid conflict.
The extent to which Hivers can manipulate others is a
matter for great speculation and no little alarm among
other species. Perhaps it is overplayed and the Hivers
have simply taken credit for lucky circumstances.
Perhaps the opposite is true and the Hivers are secretly
running Charted Space. Or is that what they want
everyone to think?
Hivers evolved on the world of Guaran in the Ricenden
sector. It is likely their distant ancestors were driven
from the seas by predators, surviving by colonising
the land where few predators at that time existed. The
proto-Hivers were still vulnerable and sought protection
through a cooperative relationship with a large
burrowing creature called a snohl. Snohls still exist on
Guaran, mostly in carefully preserved wilderness areas.
Hivers are comforted by their presence for reasons that
cannot be explained by any chemical, pheromone or
similar mechanism.

