Snohls are large, with individuals reaching 1,000
kilograms or sometimes more. They build extensive
burrows, which contain considerable amounts of trash.
The proto-Hivers benefited the snohls by cleaning up
their nests and gained both protection and a steady diet
of the snohls’ leavings. The proto-Hivers’ primary diet
was fungus of various sorts – which is still a staple for
Hivers today – and over time they learned to farm fungus
in the burrows, albeit in a crude manner.
Initially, proto-Hivers were solitary, forming a
relationship with a single snohl and mating when
burrows intersected with those of another partnership.
However, Guaran began to undergo serious climate
change – probably an ice age – and the proto-Hivers
had to change their behaviour to survive. Evolutionary
pressure resulted in greater intelligence and the habit of
cooperating with others encountered whilst foraging for
food over ever-wider distances. This eventually resulted
in communities forming, with some proto-Hivers tending
the fungus ‘farms’ and others out foraging for food in an
increasingly barren landscape.
Proto-Hivers learned to communicate with one another
and perhaps to persuade others to do what they wanted.
The end result was the development of an early Hiver
culture based around large ‘nests’ of cooperative
individuals. Hivers have an instinctive aversion to
violence and confrontation, so the usual development
of a class of rulers-by-force did not occur. Instead, the
most persuasive Hivers came to the fore, laying the
groundwork for a society built upon manipulation rather
than the threat of consequences.
Today, Hivers still prefer to quietly get others to do
what they want. They rarely ask directly for anything
and seem to feel the need to exercise their skills at
manipulation on a constant basis. Many Hivers are
not very manipulative and take non-leadership roles in
their society. Others use their abilities to get what they
want and some have taken manipulation to an art form.
It is not entirely clear what the criteria for the title
Manipulator might be but some Hivers bear it and most
do not. It is likely that the title is popularly awarded
in recognition of a major and large-scale manipulation
of others undertaken by the individual. The highest
leaders among Hiver society almost universally use the
title Manipulator.
The means by which Hivers go about manipulating
others are varied and mostly subtle. A manipulation
might be nothing more complex than constantly leaving
objects where others can trip over them, until someone
gets annoyed and demands everyone tidy up after
themselves. In this manner the Hiver cures the messy

habits of fellow crewmembers or passengers without
being seen to do anything. Other manipulations are long
and complex, involving communication, misdirection
and the use of individuals to influence others. What is
certain is that these manipulations are not psionic in
nature. No Hiver has ever been determined to have any
psionic abilities.

COMMUNICATIONS AND

TOOL USE

Hivers have no vocal chords and cannot produce sounds
resembling speech. Their ability to communicate relies
on what is effectively sign language, mostly using the
fingers of the primary limb but occasionally a fullbody performance. Non-Hivers are at an enormous
disadvantage when trying to copy this sign language,
since they have the wrong shape and number of limbs.
However, Hivers can hear and can learn the languages
of non-Hivers and any intelligent being who can see can
learn to interpret Hiver sign language.
More commonly, Hivers use a device called a Voder,
which translates the movements of the Hiver into
audible sounds or transmitted written messages. Using
a Voder requires some practice; it is not uncommon for
young Hivers to accidentally trigger the device, with the
result that the Voder tries to turn the gesture of looking
under a galley chair for something into an intelligible
sentence. This can be hilarious but given the reputation
of Hivers there will always be those who wonder why
it had its Voder make that specific sound or whether it
meant to draw attention to the fact it was looking under
the chairs. Paranoid people end up seeing manipulations
everywhere… and perhaps they are right.
There is a written form of the Hiver language, using
ideographs to represent a stylised version of their
visual signals. There is a ‘simple alphabet’, as it were,
for transmitting normal speech and an ‘extended
alphabet’ for complex concepts. This is necessary
since an ideograph is a still image and Hiver ‘speech’
is characterised by constant movement. Those working
in fields where complex ideas are written down must
learn thousands of individual symbols. Few non-Hivers,
even within the Hive Federation, use the Hiver language
in either written or sign form. Instead, the common
language of the Federation is Gurvin.
Gurvin is the language of a race of that name,
encountered early in the Hivers’ exploration of their
interstellar neighbourhood. Enough similarities existed
between Hiver and Gurvin, in terms of structure and
grammar at least, for it to be easy to learn. As more
races joined the Federation Gurvin was chosen as the

213

