standard written and spoken language throughout Hiver
territory. Usually, when a Hiver is communicating using
its Voder it will be signing in Gurvin, not Hiver, although
the Voder may be set to speak in almost any language.
Many outsiders think Gurvin is the Hiver language and
assume that their failure to comprehend some gestures
is down to a lack of proficiency. Indeed, most just listen
to the Voder and do not even try to read the gestures.
This means that a Hiver can talk to the outsiders in
Gurvin voiced in Anglic by its Voder, whilst conveying
some completely different meaning to another Hiver or
someone who understands their native language.
Hivers do not have hands in the usual sense. Their
manipulative appendages are arranged in a circle and
more like tentacles than fingers. This makes using
devices made for non-Hivers very difficult and vice
versa. Hiver equipment tends to have bulb-shaped
handles and grips. A Hiver can keep an imperatively
tight grip on an object that is the right general shape
and size but cannot mimic many tasks possible for a
being equipped with normal hands. For example, a
Hiver cannot climb a rock face by wedging fingers and
toes into cracks, because it is not equipped for this
task. It could climb a conventional ladder – albeit in an
unconventional way – and could zip up a vertical wall
with suitable handles.
Hiver body shape makes most non-Hiver tools
impossible to use but this suits Hivers most of the time.
After all, what they excel at is getting others to do their
work for them. To someone who does not understand
Hivers, seeing one struggling with a screwdriver might
seem amusing. For those who know a bit more about
them, it may be tragic – this Hiver is not merely failing
to tighten a screw, it is failing to be a Hiver.

FOOD AND MEDICINE

Hivers are descended from scavengers and are
essentially omnivorous. They tend not to worry so much
about the state of their food as other creatures. If the
ship’s pilot leaves a half-eaten sandwich lying around for
a week, a Hiver crewmate might manipulate someone
into clearing it up or might just eat it. Of course, it is
not always possible to say whether eating the mouldy
sandwich was itself a manipulation…
The modern Hiver diet consists largely of fungus.
Hivers do have a rudimentary sense of taste but can
tolerate food that would be disgusting to other races.
Those working with other races tend to eat in private or
use pre-packaged food blocks which are more or less

214

odourless. This does not bother Hivers – there are no
Hiver restaurant critics for a good reason – but it does
potentially cause a problem. Hivers are particularly
prone to deficiency diseases and must carefully
balance their diet. This means at least some meals
must be composed of particularly stinky fungus or
scavenged food containing the right nutrients. In this
context ‘food’ has a much wider meaning than most
races would consider.
Control of deficiency diseases is the single biggest
medical problem faced by Hivers. Meal packages and
supplements must be constantly changed to prevent
deficiencies appearing and even then this is not always
successful. The most notable manifestation of this
phenomenon is the loss of the sense of smell in those
Hivers that have one. This can occur apparently at
random but the cause is usually some minute imbalance
in the Hiver’s diet.
Resistance to infections and non-deficiency diseases is
high. This is largely due to the origins of the Hiver species
as scavengers and the fact that larvae spend a year in the
wild before becoming juvenile Hivers. Those with a weak
immune system do not live long enough to mature. The
secretions that line the walls of a Hiver’s cloaca are also
highly effective in killing bacteria and parasites. Indeed,
‘Hiver spit’ can be used as paint stripper.
Hivers have a limited ability to regenerate tissue
damage. In adults this is limited to sections of organ
or skin, fingers and perhaps part of a limb. Larvae can
regenerate whole limbs if necessary. A severed finger
typically takes around 20 weeks to fully regrow. Eyes,
ears and the like can repair themselves if most of the
organ remains but a wholly lost eye is gone forever.
Hiver medicine, other than emergency closing of
wounds, revolves around stimulating the body’s natural
repair or defence mechanisms. It is not known if any
anagathic compound works on Hivers; they do not seem
to approve of their use and are not known to produce
any similar pharmaceuticals.
It is believed that Hiver have the ability to shut down
their metabolism at will, settling into a painless death.
The Hivers themselves will not confirm or deny this
ability exists; it has been inferred from statements
and documents originating with associated races. The
possibility exists that Hivers can hibernate by stopping
just short of total shutdown but again there is no clear
evidence of this.

