Somewhere, in this tortuous maze of distortion,
obfuscation, agenda and lies-told-for-fun there
is an account of Hiver history just waiting to be
unravelled. It might be possible to unpick the
distortions generation-by-generation, based on the
known or suspected agenda of the Manipulators in
question, to finally arrive at the original truth. Such
an undertaking is likely beyond the abilities of mortals
and will lead in all probability to further confusion
and perhaps madness.
However, some facts can be corroborated with others
and cross-referenced with observations made by
those beyond the reach of the Hivers’ influence.
Physical phenomena make some claims impossible
and enable accurate dating of others. It is possible to
piece together a reasonably accurate picture of what
happened over the centuries but establishing why
any given action succeeded, failed or was taken at all
remains problematic.
Among the facts accepted to be generally true
is the notion that Hivers evolved on Guaran from
scavengers who developed a cooperative existence
with their own and other species. Climate change
appear to have forced an increase in intelligence
and cooperativeness, eventually producing creatures
recognisable as Hivers. Over the next 100,000 years
or so they learned to make and use more sophisticated
tools. Communities grew larger and began to maintain
regular contact with one another, ensuring the spread
of both information and genetic material. A tendency
towards curiosity about everything and anything
became a Hiver trait at this time, leading to new
discoveries and eventually the rise of civilisation.

THE HIVERS ON

GUARAN

At the end of their ice age, the Hivers were
concentrated in a relatively narrow strip of habitable
land but expanded out of it as soon as the glaciers
retreated. Their primary racial traits of curiosity and
cooperation drove them to explore the newly opened
lands and establish colonies there. These grew into
what are generally known as ‘nests’, although to
Hivers the term has wider connotations than a mere
burrowed living space.
Increased tool use naturally led to the creation of
industrial processes and a rapid industrial revolution.
Groupings of nests became proto-cities and at the
same time developed a sort of corporate status.
Individuals moved from one nest to another as they
pleased but the nest-group itself was a political

216

and economic entity. Specialisation increased over
time, with certain nest-clusters coming to dominate
their economic sector whilst others pursued entirely
different goals. Some specialised in science, some in
exploration and others in art. Meanwhile, the Hivers
built surface ships and began venturing across the
seas of their homeworld.
Hiver society also matured during this time. The notion
of manipulation as the driving social force became
accepted, creating a unique society that continues
more or less unchanged to this day. The underlying
principle was that cooperation is vital to the well-being
of a society but individuals drive long-term change
and growth. It became accepted that the society of a
nest could and would be shaped by the will of a few
individuals, despite them having no formal positions
of authority. These powerful figures became known as
Manipulators and are recorded in history as culture
heroes as well as movers and shakers.

Wacky Hiver Theories: Hive Minds

The Hivers were a puzzle to the first races
they encountered and continued to baffle
scientists as they expanded further. The name
‘Hiver’ comes from a theory propounded in the
Imperium that they shared some kind of hive
mind, possibly including the other members
of the Hive Federation. Nests were originally
referred to as hives. Greater understanding more
or less expunged this theory but a few vestiges
remain. One of them is the name ‘Hiver’. Since
the Hiver word for themselves is a combination
of tentacle and body movement of certain
intensities, it has no meaningful translation and
the label ‘Hiver’ stuck.
There are still those who believe the hive mind
‘theory’ and usually ascribe all manner of
capabilities to this uber-being. One spinoff that
does the rounds from time-to-time is the idea
that Hivers can somehow integrate outsiders
into their hive mind and learn all their secrets.
Specialist headwear can prevent this, naturally.

Industrialisation and rapid expansion had the effect
of destroying the wildernesses near to Hiver nests.
These were essential to breeding, since the larvae
needed such an area to mature before returning
to civilisation. The percentage of surviving larvae
plummeted and the Hiver population began to shrink
rapidly. Nests took their own measures, cleaning up
and preserving the local wilderness but the damage
was so great that a worldwide effort was required.

