The instigation and coordination of this planetwide
clean-up is generally lauded as a great Manipulation
– signified by a capital M – which got an entire
planetary population moving in the same direction
for a while. However, some have pointed out that the
‘manipulation’ might have been nothing more than a
reasoned argument demonstrating what needed to be
done and why. Hivers are prone to describe any action
that gets someone else to do something, or seems to,
as a manipulation.
In this context a Hiver might consider it has
manipulated the crewmember sitting opposite into
passing the salt, when in reality all it has done is
make its Voder say ‘pass the salt please’. This habit
of describing all such actions, from simple requests
or physical gambits like standing in the way so that
someone has to walk around them to grandiose plans
affecting millions of people, as manipulations is viewed
as rather silly by some outsiders. Others wonder why the
Hivers want to blur the line between real manipulations
and normal interactions. The most likely explanation
is that they genuinely think that way – any means of
getting someone else to take an action is a manipulation
to a Hiver.
However it happened, the clean-up was a success. Areas
that had become desert were reclaimed and previously
barren regions turned into thriving wilderness. Industrial
processes were limited and modified to prevent further
damage and respect for nature became ingrained in
Hiver culture. Ever since, all Hiver nests are surrounded
by a wide belt of wilderness that is carefully protected
and supported. Intervention is acceptable when the
wilderness is threatened by outside factors such as
drought but for the most part nature is permitted to take
its course.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE

JUMP DRIVE

Expansion into space was inevitable for a species so
curious about the universe. Colonies were built on other
bodies in the Guaran system, complete with artificially
wild areas. In the year -10217 by their own reckoning
(-4678 Imperial) the Hivers launched their first
starship to another system using newly discovered jump
drive technology. This was an inferior design to those
developed by most other races, prone to breakdowns and
a rapid deterioration over successive jumps. Ten jumps
was considered the absolute maximum that could be
attempted without a complete overhaul and since only
jump-1 capability was available the Hivers remained
confined to an area equating to four subsectors.

In -4212 by the Imperial calendar, the Hivers
developed a new version of the jump drive that
was far more reliable. Rapid expansion followed,
along with exploration covering a wide area. Since
interstellar flight became possible six centuries
previously the Hivers had encountered a few
sentient species but all were in a primitive state of
development. Co-opting them into the Hive Federation
had been a fairly easy and more importantly safe
endeavour. In -3986 the Hivers encountered the
Ithklur, who were an entirely different matter.
The Ithklur, upright bipeds with an aggressive nature,
had developed spacecraft but not the jump drive when
the Hivers arrived in their home system. They reacted to
the Hivers with hostility, resulting in a withdrawal and
quarantine of the Ithklur homeworld. The Hivers referred
to it as Tryylin in Gurvin and began cautiously studying
the Ithklur before making new attempts at contact.
For around 1,000 the Hivers interacted carefully with
the Ithklur, pulling back at times to return later when
the current wave of hostility had passed. According to
Hiver sources they carried out a series of manipulations
on the Ithklur, making them more biddable whilst
retaining and redirecting their aggression. Eventually
the Ithklur joined the Hive Federation and became its
primary combat forces.

CONFLICT WITH THE

K’KREE

First contact between the Hive Federation and the Two
Thousand Worlds of the K’Kree was in -2045 and the
first conflict came soon after. By -2038 the K’Kree had
overrun several Federation worlds and took their usual
measures – any meat-eater that would not become
vegetarian was killed and many were not given any
choice. It is not clear if this manipulation-by-force was
objectionable to Hivers or indeed whether they could
have complied. They could subsist on fungus but a
suitable wilderness for breeding had to include predators
to ensure only some larvae survived. The other races of
the Federation might be able to convert but the Hivers
probably could not. Since the K’Kree seemed intent on
expanding into Hive Federation territory and co-existence
was impossible, the only alternative was to fight.
The Hive Federation had good ground forces, populated
mainly by Ithklur, but their navy was virtually nonexistent. Up to this point there had been no real need
for such a force and the few armed ships available
were either overwhelmed or forced to retreat. Massive
expansion of the navy was begun, taking advantage of
a K’Kree pause to consolidate, but according to Hiver
sources the war was won by other means.

217

