In -2019 the Hivers intimated they were about to
surrender to the K’Kree and received a delegation of
high-ranking dignitaries. At the peace conference the
Hivers revealed their masterstroke. On certain worlds
– most sources claim four – they had been secretly
manipulating the K’Kree population. Among the social
traits prevalent on those worlds was a liking for meat
sauces and a desire to be alone at least some of the
time. As militant herbivore herd-creatures, the K’Kree
considered this to be a perversion of their very being.
When the Hivers threatened to do the same to the whole
K’Kree species they agreed to an armistice.
By means of this great Manipulation the Hivers
created a secure border and regained their territory.
The K’Kree sterilised the ‘corrupted’ worlds, which
remain quarantined to this day. The border zone is
heavily guarded by both sides but there has been no
further major conflict between the two states. However,
the Ithklur tell a different version of the tale in which
there was no clever manipulation – only a daring and
opportunistic lie.
According to the Ithklur, ground forces cut off on
various worlds when the Hiver fleet retreated continued
to fight as best they could. Weapons and ammunition

218

were taken from the bodies of dead enemies and so was
food. The Ithklur had no stomach for the vegetarian
rations of the K’Kree warriors but their bodies were
perfectly edible. This is exactly what the K’Kree were
campaigning to exterminate; they believed that all meateaters would sooner or later try to eat them.
When these worlds were relieved by the new Hiver fleet,
the situation was revealed and a Hiver leader known
as Tschudi took advantage of it. Tschudi arrived at
the peace negotiations with lurid images of half-eaten
K’Kree and a completely fictitious record of his orders
to carry out manipulations. Tschudi even claimed
that K’Kree were eating each other. This triggered the
reaction known to have occurred and brought about the
armistice. Tschudi was declared a Manipulator for this
deed and whether the Hiver or the Ithklur version is
true, most Hivers would contend that taking advantage
of the existing circumstances is an entirely acceptable
part of manipulation. Ultimately, Tschudi did hoodwink
the K’Kree into an armistice when they thought they
had won and that alone deserves recognition as a great
Manipulation. As to the Ithklur, they have a saying
‘We cause the dying, Hivers do the lying’. There is an
undercurrent of resentment about this but most Ithklur
find it unaccountably hilarious.

