C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

RACES OF THE

F

I

V

E

HIVE FEDERATION
The Hive Federation includes over 170 races, each
with a unique history until they joined the Federation.
Since then, the activities of any race have been
intertwined with those of all the others and with the
Federation itself. It has not been possible to obtain
records created by these races before the Hivers
contacted them. Such records might exist but must
be hidden or forgotten. Thus the known history of
these races is controlled by the Hivers. Given their
propensity for altering facts to suit their purposes any
information on the races of the Federation, even precontact, must be viewed with suspicion.
What all member races have in common is
specialisation in one niche. There are warriors and
scientists, accountants and mechanics. The member
races can perform basic tasks well enough to get by
without the others but where most species produce a
range of high-capability individuals and may excel in
multiple areas, those within the Hive Federation are
geared to one primary function. It is unlikely this is
accidental; in all probability the Hivers shaped each
race into a form that would most benefit the Federation
as a whole – and of course the Federation is controlled
by the Hivers.

THE GURVIN

The Gurvin are hexapods but have more specialised
limbs than Hivers. Their front limbs are arms, the rear
ones legs and the pair in between can act as either.
A Gurvin is about 1.75 metres long from muzzle to
tail and can stand upright on the rear legs. Males
are about half as intelligent as females, sentient but
lacking creativity or initiative. Traditionally – at least
according to the official histories, males would range
over a small area near their home community hunting
for food whilst the far more intelligent females made all
the decisions. Today, male Gurvin are rarely seen away
from their homeworlds but females travel widely. They
are the primary financial experts of the Hive Federation
and often portrayed as almost obsessed with money.
Similarly, Gurvin are notoriously lacking in altruism and
expect payment for all services or assistance.

THE ITHKLUR

The Ithklur are upright bipeds, generally humanoid
in body form but with a short, heavy tail for balance.
They stand about 2 metres tall and mass up to 200
kilograms with hands ending in formidable claws.
Ithklur are naturally aggressive, although Hiver records
claim to have curbed these tendencies to a significant
degree. It is believed that Ithklur intelligence is tied
to violent behaviour and that the manipulations that
made them controllable also made them rather stupid.
The Ithklur dispute this notion vigorously and often
physically. Ithklur serve as combat troops for the most
part and contend that they joined the Hive Federation
because it suited them to do so. This viewpoint holds
that the Ithklur outsourced decision-making and boring
economic matters to the Federation rather than them
being co-opted as warriors. Many Ithklur refer to Hivers
as ‘taxi drivers’, who take the Ithklur to interesting
places without any need to worry about the details.
Of all the races of the Hive Federation, Ithklur are the
most irreverent about the Hivers and will sometimes
engage in mild disobedience just to mess with them.

THE ZA’TACHK

The Za’tachk are quadrupeds who can use any of their
limbs as an arm or leg at need. They were one of the
earliest races contacted by the Hivers and proved
very easy to co-opt into the Federation. Za’tachk
are nonaggressive and cooperative by nature and
today are obsessive about details. Whether they were
always like that is an open question but Za’tachk
are often encountered as pursers aboard starships
or as accountants, clerks and the like. They can be
infuriating for outsiders to deal with, insisting on every
detail of paperwork being perfect. A single misplaced
apostrophe in a 120-page contract can result in
rejection but on the other hand Za’tachk very rarely
make mistakes or lose track of items. They fulfil many
administrative roles throughout the Federation and are
rarely employed in any other capacity.

219

