C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

MODERN HIVER

S

I

X

SOCIETY

Hiver society has no formal rank structure. The nature
of Hiver reproduction is such that hereditary transfers
of position or goods are entirely absent; an individual
supports and receives support from its nest but other
concepts of family simply do not exist. Some observers
claim that Hiver society is completely egalitarian, with
individuals free to do as they please and rise as high
as they are able. There is some truth in this but it is
far from being the whole story. Hivers do not jockey for
position and power in the same way as other races but
they do attempt to control one another. This concept of
manipulation is at the very heart of Hiver society.
A Hiver cannot get another Hiver to do as it wants by
means of position held, as no such positions exist.
There is no equivalent to a manager giving an order and
punishing those who do not obey through the company’s
disciplinary system. Instead, a Hiver who wants
something doing must manipulate others into doing
it – every time, all the time. Those with little talent for
manipulation cannot get much done this way but the
best manipulators can be very effective. Short-term
manipulations are useful for getting a simple task done
but for large-scale or long-term undertakings the key is
to get others to want to take part or even to use their
own skills to recruit additional participants.
Thus leadership status among Hivers is, in theory
at least, tenuous and under constant challenge. In
practice those who are good at getting others to do
what they want tend to do so on a near-constant basis
but a Hiver is only as good as its last manipulation.
Reputation as a good manipulator helps to some extent
but ultimately leadership comes down to constant effort
and favourable circumstances.

SOCIAL DISTINCTIONS
AND GOVERNANCE

Hivers have few social distinctions in the usual sense
and most are based upon stages of life. Larvae are
not people and for the most part not considered to be

220

potential-people. They are killed if they are a nuisance
or circumstances are not right for raising young and
those lost to natural causes or predation are not missed.
At about a year old the larva becomes a Yearling and
is now a person. Yearlings will be protected by their
adopted nest and educated until they are ready to join
society as an adult.
The fingers of yearlings have developed sufficiently that
they can grasp objects and development continues until
around age 14. The individual is known as a Yearling
throughout this period. Upon reaching maturity, the
individual is known as an Adult. This is the only social
distinction most Hivers receive or need; Adults are full
members of their nest and free to prosper according to
their ability to manipulate others.
Those that excel in a field eventually become known
as Seniors. This does not specifically indicate age,
although most Seniors work for many years before
attaining the status. Seniors may be recognised for
their ability to manipulate others but can also receive
recognition for what they achieve rather than the means
used to achieve it. Thus there are Seniors who are
scientists, explorers or artists.
Those who achieve recognition for a major Manipulation
are awarded the title of Manipulator. There is no formal
significance to this but there does not need to be;
someone who can attain this title has demonstrated they
can get people to do more or less anything. The title is
recognition, not an enabler. Likewise there are no formal
criteria for Manipulator status. Arguably, the way to
obtain it is to get others to award it to you – anyone able
to do that is worthy of the title.
The building-block of Hiver society is the nest. A nest
is usually a physical locality, although it may be part
of a larger structure, but more importantly it is an
association of individuals. There is no sense of family
like most other races have but a nest is a similar
concept. However, individuals can leave their nest at
any time and join another. A nest is led by one of its

