members but who that is can change from one day to
the next. The leaders of a nest is considered a Senior
by the members of its nest but may not be awarded that
status by outsiders.
Groups of nests can become large enough to be
considered cities, which are governed along the same
principles as Hiver society in general. There is no formal
government but certain nests will specialise in providing
the functions a government normally would. Others
specialise in coordinating and liaising with other cities,
whilst the majority of nests in a city will engage in
whatever work or field of interest suits them.
Cities are thus governed by general cooperation and
guided by the most potent manipulators within their
society. Likewise, planetary affairs are guided in the
same manner. It is simply not possible for an enemy to
gain control of a Hiver world by capturing the seat of
government, because there is none. However, it might
be possible to launch a ‘decapitation strike’ to take out
the key Manipulators behind a given policy – if they can
be identified.
The Hiver economy is likewise confusing to outsiders.
Hivers are not materialistic as such but do enjoy a
comfortable lifestyle and thus tend to acquire wealth to
pay for it. Each individual had a balance with their nest,
which transfers if they move from one nest to another.
There seems to be no formal regulation of the amounts
a Hiver can draw from their nest – it is possible to go
hugely into negative balance when funding a project
or manipulation and it is not clear if a request is ever
refused. Items bought with this balance belong to the
Hiver, not the nest, but can be sold back at a reduced
price when they are no longer needed.
It takes time for the transfer of balance to catch up
with a Hiver moving between nests and there are
tales of Hivers who moved repeatedly to stay ahead
of increasing debt. In some cases these stories are
cautionary, reminding the hearer that one day they may
not be able to obtain a comfortable standard of living
if they push too far. Other cases laud the Hiver as a
clever Manipulator, especially if the accumulated debt
was dodged in some manner or used to fund a grand
project. Most Hivers seem to self-regulate out of longterm self-interest.
Each nest has a focus, which may or may not be a field
of economic endeavour. Nests draw on credit from
others in the same manner as individuals, repaying what
they owe in whatever manner they can or sometimes
deflecting the debt onto another nest. The system
appears to be chaotic and prone to abuse, at least to
outsiders, and the mechanism by which all this activity
translates into a thriving world economy is baffling to
non-Hivers.

One of the specialist nest types is known as an
Embassy. Embassies exist to ensure a regular and steady
movement of genetic material and ideas between Hiver
worlds and cities. Embassies are required to stand
apart from local politics and are consulted on many
legal matters. It is not uncommon for members of an
Embassy nest to travel extensively and to consider
themselves members of all Embassies rather than just
their home one. One of the key functions of this system
is to ensure there is a single ‘Hiver culture’ on all worlds
of the Federation.
Hivers have a strong natural curiosity about everything
but generally a Hiver will be more interested in some
fields than others. These may or may not be connected
in a logical fashion. One Hiver might be fascinated by a
narrow branch of mathematics; another may be equally
interested in astrophysics, the interactions between
invasive and native species, and the history of decorative
basket-weaving. These interests may be pursued solo,
but many Hivers join one or more Topical Clubs which
align with their preferences.
Topical Clubs vary considerably. Some are open
to anyone whilst many accept members by
recommendation or invitation. Focus can be broad or
narrow. Topical Clubs provide education within their
fields of interest and conduct research or maintain
definitive archives on the subject. Most are transitory,
although often quite long-lasting, but a few have
become a permanent part of Hiver society. Chief among
these are the Manipulations Club of Guaran and the
Legal Club of Glea.
There are other Manipulations Clubs but the Guaran
one is the original and most influential. Along with
teaching Hivers how to manipulate others the club
maintains detailed records of what was done and how
for all major and many minor manipulations of society.
The Manipulations Club of Guaran also serves as an
indicator of Manipulator status. A Hiver can attain this
status by other means but if the Manipulations Club
acknowledges an individual as a Manipulator this will be
almost universally accepted by others.
The Legal Club of Glea serves a similar function for
law and those who practice it. Its archives of legal
precedent are considered the baseline for all case
law in the Federation and members are charged with
ensuring uniformity of law and enforcement throughout
Hiver territory.

221

