C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

S

E

V

E

N

MILITARY AND NAVY
The Hive Federation uses the word ‘navy’ differently
to most other polities. It is neither a wholly military
formation nor a wholly starfaring one. All ships of all
types owned and operated by the Hive Federation
are part of its navy and all ground forces serving
the Federation as a whole – as opposed to planetary
defence forces – are controlled by the navy.
Similarly, the command structure of a Hiver ship
is looser than that of most other races. Few ships
are wholly crewed by Hivers. Those that are can see
frequent changes of command, as most outsiders would
perceive it, but in a crew that has served together for
any length of time a natural order begins to prevail.
The most dominant Hiver will either be recognisably
in charge or have established de facto control over the
ship even if someone else is deluded into thinking they
are the ‘captain’.
Most ships have a non-Hiver crew with only one or two
Hivers aboard as crewmembers. Others may be carried
as passengers and will naturally try to interfere when it
suits them but the habit of cooperation will generally
keep non-crew from attempting to meddle too much in
the affairs of those who know what they are doing. Thus
Federation ships often appear to have a harmonious
crew of non-Hivers with a Hiver ‘captain’ and possibly
other Hivers in senior positions. Some ships do not have
a Hiver in charge at all and will tend to have a more
formal rank structure.
Although the positions of captain and officers do not
exist as such, there is a chain of command within the
crew and guidance about whose instructions are to be
followed. A Hiver that wanted to get control of a ship
or its mission would have to subvert this, which can
be difficult. It is generally simpler just to manipulate
the commanding Hiver and direct the vessel’s actions
through it.
Despite these rather loose command and control
arrangements, Hive Federation ships are generally
efficiently run. The crew are specialists who know
their jobs and a vessel will usually have a crew
leader who takes the role of executive officer in all
but name. The Hiver in charge indicates its general

222

wishes, which might be the destruction of a hostile
vessel or a simple docking manoeuvre and the crew
gets the job done efficiently.
The Hive Federation has no equivalent to the highly
organised sector and subsector fleets of the Imperium.
Instead it is divided into administrative regions that receive
an ever-changing allocation of starships. The activities
of individual manipulators can alter the distribution of
ships considerably, although some regions are deemed
sufficiently important that it would take a galaxy-class
manipulation to strip them of heavy ships. The border with
the Two Thousand Worlds is one such region.
When it becomes apparent a naval task must be carried
out, a commander is chosen and ships are assigned.
Whether the Hiver in command gets itself appointed or
is actually chosen for its capabilities is subject to the
usual internal politics of the Hive Federation. Likewise,
the allocation of ships is influenced by more than
just the needs of the task at hand. The commanding
Hiver will not be an ‘admiral’ in the usual sense but
is typically a Manipulator with a grasp of many topics,
advised perhaps by specialists. Thus a naval force is
usually put together from what is available and can be
obtained by its leader and is an instrument of policy
rather than a pure combat force. This is of course true
elsewhere but nowhere more so than when a fleet is
wielded by a master Manipulator.
Hiver warships favour long-range weapons such as
particle accelerators and missile systems, and tend to
be well protected even if they are not combat vessels.
Indeed, the Federation navy has far more paramilitary
ships than purely military ones. These are mostly
multirole vessels with light armament for their tonnage,
capable of swapping between patrol and policing work
to transport or specialist tasks with minimal effort. Such
ships are inadequate for a major conflict but entirely
capable of dealing with minor security threats.
Ships are typically constructed with the bridge and
control spaces deep in the heart of the vessel and are
expected to accommodate any race that is part of the
Hive Federation. As a result, controls are generic or
have repeated sections for differently shaped operators.

