This takes up extra space and can be expensive, and
sometimes makes Hiver ships rather easy to steal. There
are so many alternate inputs and workarounds that a
semi-competent hacker can bypass security without
undue difficulty.
Vessels used by the navy are typically constructed
at TL13–15, although there are rumours of exotic
technologies kept hidden where no outsiders can see
them. Ships built for the use of member worlds or private
users vary considerably in technological sophistication,
with little standardisation beyond a generally preferred
design philosophy. Similarly, the defensive forces of
member worlds vary considerably but the ground forces of
the navy are more uniformly equipped.
The majority of non-specialist ground troops are Ithklur,
who are adept at and seem to relish combat. Ground
forces have no standard organisation above the squad
level; forces are put together as needed and demobilised
afterward. In practice, a ground force deployment will
tend to parallel the formal units used by other cultures
in terms of general size and composition but each force
is unique and transitory.

Ground forces favour gauss weapons for infantry, which
is the primary fighting arm. Most operations are directly
from starships or aboard installations, making heavy
vehicles unnecessary much of the time. Light, fast grav
vehicles are used for direct support, particularly during
urban fighting when they are accompanied by grav
troop carriers. These are geared more to vertical than
horizontal operations; it is generally easier to advance on
the ground than to fight up a tall building.
Hivers very rarely accompany front-line troops but
may be found manning artillery weapons in the rear of
a combat zone. Artillery vehicles are usually heavily
equipped with decoys, missile defences and shortrange aerospace defence weapons. This over-emphasis
on defensive equipment aboard vehicles that are
unlikely to be attacked is typical of Hiver mindset.
They are quite happy for lightly equipped Ithklur to go
rampaging among the buildings of an enemy city so
long as the Hiver leaders can sit well out of harm’s way
in a mobile bunker.

223

