C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

E

I

G

H

T

COMMERCE AND EXPLORATION
Some commercial activity is carried out privately,
aboard ships owned by nests specialising in this area.
More commonly, vessels of the Hive Federation navy are
used to carry goods between member worlds. Exactly
how any given ship comes to be undertaking a particular
task depends on many factors but it is rarely a simple
financial transaction. More commonly, manipulation and
bargaining results in a vessel being sort-of-chartered for
a particular run or ensures that space is available for
passengers and cargo to be shipped.
Commercial spacing is nightmarishly complicated in the
Federation as a result but this is to the liking of those
who can thrive in such an environment. Those confused
and baffled by all the possible deals that could be in
place fall by the wayside; those who impose order on a
small segment of the chaos will become rich. For the
merchant who wants 60 tons of agricultural machinery
shipping from one world to another or the Traveller
seeking passage the situation is fluid but less complex.
Ticket or freighting prices do suddenly fluctuate but the
market will only stand so much variation and tends to
self-regulate most of the time.
To simulate this rather chaotic environment, roll 2D of
different colours when someone wants to buy passage
or freight space. One dice represents +5% to the price
per point, the other –5% per point. This gives a base
cost of +/– 25%. The price will persist for D3 days
before being redetermined. If the Traveller does not
want to wait for a good price they can delve deeper,
perhaps finding and contacting ship operators who
will make a better bargain or undertaking a Hiverstyle manipulation to get passage for less. This can
spawn adventures and lead to useful contacts but
is time-consuming. That is just another reality of
the Federation – those with the talent to modify the
situation get what they want quickly; everyone else just
has to wait and hope they will get lucky.
Brokerages and similar commercial institutions are also
exposed to considerable behind-the-scenes interference.
This is the case everywhere but is particularly rampant
in the Federation. It is common for a paid-for cargo to
be suddenly unavailable and a solid deal to collapse
without warning. Those who deal fairly and only on the
surface are likely to lose out – to stand a chance it is
necessary to play the game and join the scramble.

224

The usual deals and auctions are only the tip of the
proverbial iceberg. Often the price and fate of cargo is
sealed long before it enters port. Relationships carefully
cultivated result in some cargoes always going to certain
dealers at a steep discount even if there is a bigger fee
on offer and many items are never publicly offered for
sale. Much depends on who you know and what you can
get them to do for you. This applies at all stages in the
chain. A buyer expecting cargo is disappointed when it
is bought out after a deal was made but gets the dock
crew to divert it back to its original destination by way
of clever manipulation. In other cultures this would all
be highly criminal but in the Hive Federation it is simply
how business is conducted.
The Federation has a border with the Two Thousand
Worlds to coreward and the Solomani Confederation for
part of its spinward extent but there are no major states
in other directions. Exploration has been conducted
for centuries, although rarely with much vigour. The
Hivers are not forthcoming with data on what they have
encountered and of course any information they do
provide must be viewed with suspicion.
Most exploration is carried out over relatively short
distances by the same multipurpose ships used for
patrol work and commercial haulage. Some longer-range
vessels do exist and are known to have made extremely
long voyages out to trailing and rimward. It is likely
there are scattered Federation colonies far beyond the
known borders. Some of these may even be at the hub
of a mini-federation of their own. However, most of the
time the term ‘exploration’ refers to survey missions
sent to obtain further information about worlds that
have been at least cursorily charted for centuries or
expeditions to gather intelligence.
Hiver ships routinely venture out from the Federation’s
borders to maintain up-to-date information on worlds
that might become a useful market or a threat. There
are also scientific missions undertaking various forms of
research. These missions tend to blur into one another
as the agenda of the crew is shifted by influential
members, so a mission to determine if a world might
become a threat could be derailed into study of an
interesting stellar phenomenon for a time, eventually
returning with data on economic conditions on several
worlds and a claim that there was an emerging threat
that has been cleverly manipulated into harmlessness.

