C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

E

N

T

Y

N

I

N

E

THE HIVE FEDERATION
The Hive Federation expanded out from the world of
Guaran, in the Ricenden sector. Initially confined to
a small area around Guaran, the Hivers assimilated
all sentient races in this area, repeating the process
when improvements in jump drive technology permitted
them to move beyond their immediate surroundings.
Expansion to coreward was curtailed by an encounter
with the K’kree, leading to a major war and the eventual
establishment of a firm border.
Although the spinward and trailing frontiers of the
Hive Federation were more or less open, expansion
was directed mainly in a spinward-rimward direction.
This was largely due to astrographic realities and
political likelihoods. To trailing of the coreward part
of the Federation was an area of open space which
was likely to be targeted for K’kree expansion. The
Federation pushed out in this direction sufficiently to
create a sector-wide zone between the border and the
old worlds of the Hivers but eventually moved in the
opposite direction.
Regions of the Hive Federation do not correspond to
neat sector boundaries in most cases. The Federation
as a whole is of irregular shape, with an inner region
considered to be the Ricenden, Centrax, Wrenton and
about half of Extolian sectors. Coreward of this is the
region known as the Coreward Border District and
immediately to trailing of Ricenden is the Blaskon
Region of Interest. Rimward of the Region of Interest is
the Trailing Bulge.
The spinward-rimward segment of the Hive Federation
is considered to consist of two regions. The Hive Young
Worlds represent more recently annexed systems
across the rimward boundary of the Federation, whilst
the spinward-coreward border zone runs ‘round the
corner’ from Spica up into the spinward edge of
Extolian, encompassing many systems outside the
Federation proper.

THE CENTRAL ZONE

The exact extents of the Central Zone are open to some
debate. It definitely lies within Ricenden, Centrax,
Wrenton and Extolian but does not cover the entirety
of any of them. The Central Zone is sometimes referred

to as the ‘Federation Old Worlds’ and a variety of other
titles, some of which are specific to parts of the zone.
The Central Zone is thoroughly ‘tamed’, with unrest
virtually unknown. Indeed, this is the measure used
by many to delineate the extent of the zone – worlds
that have required significant correction in the past few
centuries are considered to lie outside it. ‘Correction’
in this case typically refers to major Manipulations,
sometimes backed by the threat of military intervention.
Actual naval or ground operations are exceedingly rare
in the Hive Federation.
The Central Zone is characterised by vigorous and
complex economic activity and an unusually settled
political situation. Despite the cross-cutting agendas of
powerful Hivers and Topical Clubs, stability reigns in the
region. It is widely theorised that there is some powerful
force at work creating this environment, perhaps a
Central Zone Stability Club or a similar association of
Manipulators working to create circumstances best
suited to economic and industrial activity.
There are military and naval bases in the region but
these are under-used for the most part. Hive Federation
naval installations always cater to more than just
military ships and those in the Central Zone take this to
an extreme. Most have only a handful of major combat
assets and even in-system defence forces are light.
Instead they support large freighters – or rather, vessels
currently operating in a commercial role. Those same
ships might be pressed into service as warfighting assets
if absolutely necessary but arguably the whole point of
the Hive Federation is ensuring this does not happen.

THE COREWARD

BORDER DISTRICT

The coreward border of the Hive Federation runs
through the Kaa G!kul, Gzirr!k’l and K’trekreer sectors,
along with a small section of Ricenden. For much of
its length the border is separated from K’kree space by
a narrow strip of neutral space. This area tends to see
considerable activity by both Hiver and K’kree vessels,
monitoring neutral systems and attempting to gain
advantage or reduce the influence of the other power.

225

