The K’kree approach to the neutral area is to ignore
it most of the time, with the occasional large-scale
military expedition ‘thundering’ through multiple
systems to demonstrate the military power of the Two
Thousand Worlds. Intimidation and direct threats
are the usual diplomatic tools of the K’kree, directed
at both neutral worlds and the Hive Federation. The
Hivers are, predictably, more subtle. They trade and
offer assistance where appropriate, all the while quietly
spreading rumours of K’kree oppression and atrocities.
These need not be embellished; indeed, Hiver diplomats
often downplay the savagery of the K’kree towards their
enemies. The aim is to harden local attitudes against
the Two Thousand Worlds rather than frightening local
governments into obedience to the K’kree.
The primary buffer between the Hive Federation and the
K’kree is the Krotan Primacy. The Krotan are a nonhumanoid biped race who possess a suspiciously high
level of technology. Their advancement from an earlyspacefaring culture when first contacted by the Hivers
into a high-technology power occurred in an impressively
short time and was accompanied by warm relations
with the Hive Federation. It is widely supposed that the
Krotan were manipulated good and hard by the Hivers
to create a buffer state, although they were always
predisposed to be unreceptive to K’kree overtures.
The Krotan are omnivores and therefore targets for
extermination or enforced vegetarianism when the
K’kree get around to dealing with them. The only way to
avoid this was to become a hard target but at the same
time avoid antagonising the Two Thousand Worlds. It is
known for certain that Hivers played a part in Krotan/
K’kree diplomacy, although the exact terms of any
agreements made are unknown. Today, the Krotan are
important trading partners for the Federation, with ships
crossing back and forth between the two on a regular
basis. They appear content with the territory they now
control and spend a high proportion of their economic
output on ensuring any attempt at conquest is too costly
to contemplate.
Hiver/K’kree contact is limited in the region coreward
of Ricenden, although long-range diplomatic missions
do cross the intervening space. Elsewhere in the
coreward part of the Federation, borders lie closer and
there is some direct trade. Kaa G!kul and K’trekreer
are the most heavily militarised part of the entire
Federation, although this is, as always, relative. There
are few standing forces of warships but the resources
allocated to these sectors could put together a potent
defensive force in a short time.
Some systems are sufficiently heavily defended to be
considered ‘fortress worlds’ but their locations are
haphazard by the standards of more strategically minded

races. Member worlds normally pay for their own insystem defences and the funds required to properly
fortify a system are beyond the means of most. Those
that have received powerful defences have generally
benefited from intervention by a Hiver Manipulator who
saw some benefit to fortifying that particular world.
Thus the pattern of defences owes more to the desires
of individuals to protect their homes or interests than to
grand strategy.

THE BLASKON

REGION OF INTEREST
The Blaskon Region of Interest contains systems in the
Blaskon and Nooq sectors plus the coreward ends of
Folgore and Averguar. This region is less ‘pacified’ than
the Central Zone and occasionally sees some unrest on
member worlds. The spinward segments of the Region
of Interest were settled early in the expansion of the
Hive Federation, with larger colonisation and annexation
taking place at a slower pace.
Hiver ships routinely cross the border, headed out to
trailing into the neutral systems. As usual, activity in
the region is haphazard and subject to the whims of
individuals but there is an underlying theme to most
of the endeavours taking place along and outside the
federation’s borders. Survey ships look for resources
in unclaimed systems and follow-up missions exploit
them in an aggressive manner but where a native race
holds sway over a star system a much gentler approach
is taken.
This is not altruism. Indeed, it is part of the same
plan. Systems that might someday be claimed by the
Two Thousand Worlds are stripped of their readily
accessible resources, whilst any race or society that
might resist K’kree expansion is ‘hardened’ by providing
technological uplift and guidance. The Federation has
many friends in this region; friends who do not know
they are merely a buffer zone and speed-bump to K’kree
expansion. If conflict erupts between a neutral race
and the Two Thousand Worlds it is unlikely the Hive
Federation will go to war to protect it.
Encounters with large Hiver ships are not uncommon
in this region, on both sides of the border. Most are
engaged in commercial activity but well enough armed
to deal with a modest threat. There are few naval forces
as such, for the simple reason that ships that could be
making money are wasted hanging around a naval base.
It would take some time to concentrate a naval force in
the event of serious trouble but ships are already in the
region. It is unclear how many there are at any given
time, which serves the Hivers’ interests.

227

