THE TRAILING BULGE

The Trailing Bulge lies in the mid and rimward parts of
Folgore and Averguar. Expansion in a trailing-rimward
direction is impeded by an area of low stellar density –
not quite a rift – known as the Kolir-Kidunal Sparsity.
It is not difficult to cross for a high-jump ship and is a
barrier mainly to economic activity. Exploration ships
and adventurous long-range traders cross the Sparsity on
an intermittent basis but there is little incentive to try to
push the border across to the other side.
The Sparsity provides a natural frontier to trailingrimward and expansion around the coreward end is not
desirable. It is widely assumed that the Two Thousand
Worlds will eventually push in this direction, so longterm strategy is aimed at guiding their movement
around the far side of the Sparsity. By making the
Nooq sector unattractive – denuded of easily accessible
resources and populated by resilient neutral races – the
Hive Federation hopes to subtly deflect any surge of
K’kree expansion past the Kolir-Kidunal Sparsity in the
hope that energy will be expended elsewhere. There
are rumours of long-term plans to make the region a
quagmire for the K’kree if they invade or start annexing
worlds, with resistance movements and subversive
elements primed to begin their activities as soon as the
first K’kree warriors arrive.
At present the Bulge is still something of a frontier, with
a mix of developed and neglected worlds. Its protected
location makes it a prime candidate for development
into an economic heartland but this is proceeding in
fits and starts, as always beholden to the plans and
ambitions of influential Hiver Manipulators. Other than
the systems bordering the Sparsity, the Bulge is very
much an ‘internal’ region of the Federation where ships
on naval missions are rarely encountered. Heavily armed
vessels are still not uncommon but they will usually be
engaged in non-military missions.

THE SPINWARDCOREWARD

BORDER ZONE

The Spinward-Coreward Border Zone is subdivided
into the Spica Flank, consisting of parts of Spica and
Phlask, and the Tryylin Watch. The latter is named for
the Ithklur homeworld and semi-officially includes many
worlds in the Extolian and Leonidae sectors that lie
outside the borders of the Federation. Some systems in
the Hinterworlds are also places of interest to those who
direct the affairs of the Tryylin Watch, though as always
interest waxes and wanes depending on who is pushing
what agenda.

228

Hive Federation ships are common in the Watch, many
of them making the long reach to the Old Expanses in
order to trade with the Imperium. A chain of friendly
worlds and safe ports is desirable to secure this lucrative
trade route and considerable effort is expended on
ensuring the support of local governments. Federation
ships will sometimes land ground forces to clear up a
trouble spot or to ‘correct’ a government that is acting
against the interests of the Federation but always ‘to
help local allies’ or ‘to provide assistance in this difficult
time’. The Federation’s policies are at times positively
aggressive in the region and some wonder if a better
name for the Watch might be ‘The Ithklur Playground’.
It seems unlikely that the Federation’s ground-pounders
are pulling the strings, however.
The Spica Flank also contains numerous systems
outside the Federation, to coreward of the border. This
region is less important to long-term strategic aims
and sees few interventions. Trade ships are common,
however, and occasionally a world becomes a client
of the Federation. Joining as a full member is a more
complex business, since a mixed population of many
Federation races is considered necessary to fulfilling
all governmental tasks efficiently. Many non-mixed
populations wonder why they could not simply continue
running their local affairs as before and fear being
manipulated into a single niche. This would make a
given population more useful to the Federation as a
whole but also bring to an end any dreams of greatness.
From the moment a world melds into the Federation
its own history essentially stops and most independent
worlds are unreceptive to this even if the benefits of
membership are considerable. Thus the border in this
region remains stable. Those that do not wish to be
dissolved in the federation often receive support from
the Solomani Confederation, whether for political
reasons or out of respect for unique cultures.
The spinward part of the Spica Flank has a direct
border with the Solomani Confederation. Tensions rise
intermittently but for the most part a wary respect
exists. Both powers maintain significant naval forces
near the border, although the Federation’s ships are
often co-opted for economic or other missions. Most
trade is conducted between hubs located just across the
border from one another, with goods trans-shipped from
there, but longer-range cruises do range far and wide
within Solomani and Hiver territory.

