THE HIVE YOUNG

WORLDS

The Hive Young Worlds region today encompasses the
coreward ends of the Langere, Drakken, Lorspane and
Porlock sectors. The term was originally applied to a
region close to the coreward end of these sectors and
in those immediately coreward of them, but as the
worlds closer to the centre of the Federation matured
they ceased to be considered ‘young’. Thus the ‘young
worlds’ region has been moving slowly rimward since
the early 400s, around the time the capital of the
Federation was moved to Glea.
The Young Worlds region contains a mix of developed
and backwater systems, where occasional flurries of
activity see the border pushed rimward a little. Most
of the time the pace of development and expansion is
rather sedate, however, as the Hive Federation takes
a long view towards these things. Expansion is also
curtailed by astrography. Langere is rather sparse, with
a few mains and beyond it stellar density drops off
quickly. This creates a convenient barrier between the
Federation’s spinward-rimward flank and any expansion
rimward by the Solomani Confederation. Missions from
both cross the sparse region but this is uncommon.
The path to expansion is much more open rimward of the
Drakken sector. There are several large and promising
mains which have been explored by Hiver traders. Some

worlds in this region are known to have been ‘worked
over’ by Hive manipulators in order to secure trade routes
or safe ports for explorers. If the Federation continues to
expand, it will be in this direction.
The centre of the Lorspane sector is dominated by the
Lorspane drift, a region of extremely high stellar density
whose origins are currently unknown. It is notable
that the border of the Federation lies outside the drift.
It is not claimed and there do not seem to be any
member worlds (or potential member worlds) within it.
The reasons for this are probably known to only a few
interested Manipulators, although speculation is rife
outside the Federation.
The Porlock sector offers plenty of opportunities to
expand rimward and initiatives occasionally make
progress in that direction. In recently years there
has been considerable exploration activity out of
Porlock, directed rimward and trailing-rimward, and
there are rumours of large colony expeditions heading
out of Hiver space. This may be an exaggeration but
rumours seem to agree that these expeditions contain
populations from multiple member worlds, suggesting
the creation of colonies rather than trading posts or
exploration bases. The reason for this sudden wave of
colonisation remains unclear.

Wacky Hiver Theories: Dreamers and the Exodus

Hivers are believed to have no potential for psionic powers, although they are as susceptible as anyone else to
their use. There are, however, tales of Hiver ‘dreamers’ who may be psionic receptors. If this is true, they are
extremely rare – one in millions at most. Dreamers, according to the theory at least, passively receive thoughts
and images from all minds around them as a confusing jumble that is processed by the Hiver’s subconscious.
Sooner or later the result intrudes into the Hiver’s consciousness as a sort of waking dream, accompanied by
seizure-like symptoms.
‘Dreams’ are said to be confused and oracular rather than informative and represent the Hiver’s subconscious
attempt to make sense of all those random thoughts and images. There is no indication that there is any sort
of prescience or foretelling involved; in all probability the dream is a symptom of uncontrolled latent telepathy
rather than any sort of useful gift. It is not known if any dreamer has ever had psionic training.
Those who believe this rather far-fetched tale often conflate it with the increased interest in exploration and
possible colonisation in the rimward end of the Federation and leap to the conclusion that Something Bad
Is Coming And The Hivers Know About It. Again, there is no evidence that any of this is true. Documents,
allegedly of Hiver origin, occasionally make the rounds of the more dubious end of the newsfeeds. The most
recent is a disturbing poem-like text detailing a dream alleged to have been experienced by a Hiver. ‘I had a
dream. A dream of fire’ became a popular phrase among conspiracy fans after a fringe documentary channel
ran a feature entitled ‘What The Hivers Don’t Want You To Know’. Interest has since waned but there are those
who insist that ‘something is coming’ and that the Hivers are either behind it, running ahead of it, or both.

229

