C H A P T E R - T W E N T Y

T H I R T Y

HIVER WORLDS

There are very few ‘purely Hiver’ worlds within the
Federation. Almost all worlds inhabited by Hivers
have at least some other races present and most are a
cosmopolitan mix of many species. The definition of a
Hiver world is thus not so much whether it is inhabited
by Hivers as whether it has a ‘Hiver’ or ‘Hive Federation’
culture. Many worlds within the Federation do not,
although there are always influences. Those that do not
tend to be homeworlds of a member race or cultural
preserves for the most part, although there are worlds
that have a different culture to the Federation norm for
no readily discernible reason.

GUARAN
A565800-F

Guaran is a small world with a standard atmosphere
and about 50% ocean coverage. There are six major
bodies of water and many smaller ones, dividing the
world up into distinct regions. Guaran is the homeworld
of the Hivers but is no longer the political centre of the
Hive Federation. It does retain economic and political
significance but whilst Hivers from far-off worlds come
to visit the homeworld its draw is more academic than
spiritual – Hivers go there because they want to see the

230

old homeworld for themselves and to experience their
evolutionary conditions but Guaran does not have the
spiritual significance that Earth does for many humans.
Guaran is a model of how to balance technology and
ecology. The large and small cities are all surrounded
by wide belts of wilderness, which can be considered
to fall into two general types. Maintained Wilderness
areas are monitored and kept in optimal condition by a
large body of specialist workers. Maintained Wilderness
is completely wild, with dangerous predators and other
hazards, but is kept from changing too much. Beyond
the maintained zones are the ‘true wilderness’ areas
where no such work is done. These areas may suffer
damage from flooding or drought and are left to nature
to mould as it will, whilst the maintained areas are
quickly returned to an optimal state after any natural
damage has occurred.
Hiver larvae fend for themselves in these wilderness
areas for a year before joining a community. Most
return to the nearest city but some manage to make
epic journeys across hundreds of kilometres of true
wilderness to reach small settlements or distant cities.
Some Hivers are opposed to tracking larvae but there

