are Topical Clubs on Guaran dedicated to learning more
about the behaviour of their species’ offspring. So far
no universally accepted theory exists as to why (or how)
some larvae manage to range so widely.
The cities themselves are clean and elegant in a
functional way. Hiver nests within a city are usually
small all-Hiver areas, with districts in between
populated by a mix of races. Heavy goods typically
move underground through tunnels, either by way of
wide-gauge maglev railways or grav vehicles racing at
terrifying speeds on automated delivery schedules. Little
of this activity is seen at surface level and most industry
is buried in the base of structures.
Typically, living areas are built on a horizontal and
vertical grid, with light rail and ground-level roadway
links between tall structures containing thousands
or tens of thousands of homes, shops and minor
businesses. Grav vehicle platforms give access to
the higher levels from other structures, with grav
elevators providing internal vertical movement.
Dwelling structures tend to be self-contained with their
own power and recycling facilities but are not quite
arcologies as such.
Guaran is officially listed as an anarchic society with no
laws and by the standards of non-Federation races this
is arguably the case. Society is largely self-regulating
by way of long precedent and a cooperative instinct,
with most inhabitants following rules that have not
needed to be codified for generations. To an outsider it
can be bewildering that a population numbering in the
hundreds of millions can get along without tearing itself
apart, especially with so many races represented.
In fact, the vast majority of people on Guaran are
peaceful and cooperative, and even those who have their
own agendas tend not to engage in physical violence
or obviously harmful actions. This is simply not the
Hiver way. However, society has its leaders and its
mavericks and vast numbers of people in between who
just want to get on with whatever interests them today.
The machinations of the more active segment of the
population tend to cancel one another out in the grand
scheme of things, although occasionally a major project
surfaces and makes waves for a while.
One example of such a project remains a major tourist
attraction on Guaran despite the sheer mundanity of its
physical aspect. In the very distant past, a single Hiver
decided that its home region would be better served
by the creation of a major road and communication
infrastructure. Getting multiple cities involved in this
huge undertaking was not an easy task and has been
acknowledged as the First Manipulation. Its extent is
obvious to those who drive the roadways and tunnels

that still follow the old routes, visiting cities built in
previously inaccessible areas opened up by the new
network. On one hand, this is just an impressive piece
of infrastructure but to a Hiver it is a symbol of what one
Hiver can do when it sets its mind to the task.
Few Hiver tourists visit Guaran without meeting
representatives of the Manipulations Club of
Guaran. The club maintains records of all the great
Manipulations and evaluate petitions for new entries in
its archives. It also trains manipulators, although nonHivers who attend generally come away disappointed
that they have learned no great secrets. The club’s
leaders maintain that this is the great secret; a true
Manipulator knows nothing more than anyone else. It is
what they do with that knowledge that sets them apart.
Guaran is almost entirely defenceless. It lies in the heart
of the Hive Federation, with many parsecs of pacified
worlds in all directions. There are no military garrisons
and whilst the orbital starport has a few weapons
scattered over its outer surface it could not withstand a
determined attack. Nor could the armed ships likely to
be in-system at any given time. Traffic volume is high
and some ships present are well armed but there is no
system defence command beyond what is necessary
to coordinate customs and security vessels. There has
never been any real need to defend Guaran; it is not
really important to the Hive Federation and highly
unlikely to ever be attacked. Indeed, if Guaran ever
were to come under attack it would signify the complete
failure of the Hive Federation to control its surroundings
– and that is arguably its main reason for existing.

GLEA

A667800-F

Glea is larger than Guaran but has otherwise similar
conditions. It is a very welcoming world, with
wildernesses suitable for Hiver larvae. As with Guaran,
these are divided into maintained and true wilderness
but there are greater differences on Glea. Maintained
wildernesses are mostly populated by flora and fauna
originating on Guaran, whereas truly wild areas are
generally home to native life. Between the two are
zones where native and introduced species mingle,
creating an environment that has kept Hiver scientists
interested for generations.
The cities of Glea are similar to those of Guaran but
their settlement pattern reflects deliberate colonisation
rather than expansion and cities were designed from the
outset to be inhabited by a variety of races. The majority
of cities are much the same as those found elsewhere;
places of industry and economic activity, home to
tens of thousands of Hive Federation citizens. Some,
however, have a different character.

231

