Glea is the capital of the Hive Federation, which is
governed from a purpose-built city-complex. Rather
than allow a single city to grow too large and perhaps
begin damaging the vital wilderness area around it,
the Federation created a group of cities within easy
travel distance of one another. They are located in
favourable locations, creating a rough ring and it is
perhaps symbolic that there is no centre to the group.
Each of the cities contains part of the Federation’s
administrative apparatus and none is elevated above the
others… at least in theory.
The capital group has embassies from each of the
member races, distributed apparently at random among
the cities, as well as Topical Clubs dedicated to a variety
of interests. Some are the equivalent of think-tanks or
lobby groups, whilst others are concerned with specific
aspects of the Federation’s governance. The most
famous of these is the Legal Club of Glea, which is the
primary repository of law and custom throughout the
Federation. Its members are frequently consulted on
matters great and small, and offer solutions to complex
negotiations with outside agencies.
Glea itself is recorded as being an anarchy by most
databases. This has more to do with an inability to
understand how Hiver government works than actual
chaos, although to all appearances there is little
structure to anything. In fact Glea is led rather than
governed and leadership changes frequently depending
on the actions of individuals. The supposedly equal
cities rise to prominence and are eclipsed in turn as
their master Manipulators push the federation as a
whole in this direction or that.
Similarly, Glea is listed as having a law level of zero
in most databases, yet it is home to one of the most
prominent legal bodies in Charted Space. This is
because ‘law’ has a different meaning in Hiver terms

232

than elsewhere. There may be no formally written
laws but there are centuries of precedent about
actions that led to unpleasant consequences and thus
are undesirable, or complex disputes resolved in a
clever manner. The Legal Club of Glea does not sit in
judgement and hand down penalties in the manner of
an Imperial court; instead it advises on what should or
should not be done and suggests (one way or another)
solutions to problems. Sometimes a matter is brought
to the club and sometime later the problem just sort of
goes away without anyone having a clue what happened.
On other occasions the Legal Club might straightout declare that an action is likely to lead to very bad
consequences and cannot be permitted. It has no formal
power to enforce this but others are likely to decide to
do so. The Legal Club of Glea also spends many happy
hours poring over the treaties and contracts of other
races, to a variety of purposes.
An observer unfamiliar with how the Hive Federation
works might be puzzled – to say the least – by a visit
to Glea. There is the usual enormous bureaucratic
apparatus and the starport is busy with ships coming
and going, yet nothing ever seems to be formally
resolved or decided. There are no declarations of intent
or ceremonies to close a matter. Everything is on the
table, all of the time, and debates spring up and die
down over matters long thought resolved. No orders
or edicts come out of the capital cities, although
apparently important Hivers come and go all the time.
Yet things happen. The Hive Federation is orderly and
prosperous. It undertakes great works and reins in the
behaviour of ill-intentioned individuals.
An outsider might never comprehend how it all happens,
since absolutely none of it is formal or overt. Hivers
make decisions on Glea and they are implemented in
the Federation; that much is known. How, when and why
any given initiative began is usually a complete mystery

