and it is likely that even the most powerful Hiver
Manipulators on Glea are often lost in the chaos. Glea is
an anarchy indeed, in which no-one has the formal right
to tell anyone what to do… but equally anyone can try to
impose their will on the whole Hive Federation.

TIRING ANTES
B989466-C

Tiring Antes lies close to the border with the Solomani
Confederation. It is a large, wet world with a dense
atmosphere and thoroughly disagreeable ecosystem.
Wilderness areas must be carefully maintained and
imported species protected, as the local wildlife is
inimical both to these species and also Hiver larvae.
Survival rates are very low, even with constant attention
to maintaining a challenging but not-too-lethal
environment. This is acceptable, since Tiring Antes is
occupied for political and economic reasons rather than
being a home.
The world’s population of around 80,000 Hive
Federation citizens includes a few nests of Hivers but
is mostly made up of other races. Other than cementing
a territorial claim the population is present only to
support the naval and military bases in the system. As is
common with the Hive Federation, these are different in
character to the bases used by other powers.
The military base is a sprawling facility located on one
of the world’s few largish land masses. It is home to
a large force of ground troops, most of them Ithklur,
and also to an extensive maritime operations training
facility. Where large facilities of this sort in other
powers tend to focus on training and fielding high-level

formations – brigades, divisions and corps – the base
at Tiring Antes is geared more to deploying what might
be called flexible-response forces. These vary in size
and composition, and are typically set up to deal with
a range of problems rather than being purely military
forces. At the very least a negotiating team is included
and often there are construction and mercantile assets.
These demonstrate the carrot whilst the military force
stands ready with the stick.
The naval base is likewise not a purely military facility.
It is heavily fortified and acts as an orbital fortress to
defend the mainworld. In-system defensive craft are
mostly pure combat designs but most of the ships based
out of the installation are multirole types suited to
commerce and diplomacy as well as combat. This is how
the Hive Federation projects power from its naval bases
– they are more about creating circumstances in which
conflict is unlikely than warfighting.
Tiring Antes is a regular port of entry for ships from
the Solomani Confederation headed into the Hive
Federation. Solomani naval vessels are also frequent
visitors ‘showing the flag’ and occasionally conducting
joint exercises. These rarely go very well, since the Hive
Federation’s way of operating is totally incompatible
with the formal command structure of the Confederation
Navy. It is also rumoured that the Hivers like to mess
with the earnest Solomani visitors either to observe their
reactions or undermine the reputation of officers who
might someday lead an effective operation against the
Hive Federation. It seems unlikely that the chaos that
surrounds a typical attempt at joint exercises can be
entirely due to amateurishness and misunderstandings.

233

