UOUU
B100216-A

Lying at the trailing edge of the Hive Federation, Uouu
is a rockball world inhabited by mostly non-Hivers. The
permanent population numbers around 700 workers
at the small downport, although at any given time
there may be several hundred more prospectors and
small-scale miners on-planet. The Hiver population
is limited to a single nest, which functions as a world
government of sorts and the board of directors of a
small mining corporation.
Uouu has a fair amount of mineral wealth, of which little
has yet been tapped. This provides a modest income
but with no industry to make use of it most is shipped
offworld in a raw form. The downport is little more than
an ore processing works and associated landing area,
whilst the orbital port is far more extensive.
The highport does not ‘belong’ to the world government
of Uouu but was built by the Hive Federation as
part of an initiative to secure the border. Security,
in this context, is provided by cross-border trade
with the independent worlds to Trailing. In addition
to establishing good relations with governments of
inhabited worlds the constant flow of trade is an
easy way to gather intelligence and act upon it with
subtle manipulations. This has not always translated
to complete tranquillity but in general this part of the
trailing frontier is peaceful.
The sealed settlement of Uouu has some small
biosphere areas but these are not suitable for the
development of Hiver larvae. All larvae are killed as
a matter of course. The Hiver community of Uouu

234

ensures it continues to contribute to genetic diversity
and receives a steady influx of new genetic material
by sending representatives to other worlds on a regular
basis. These ‘handshake tours’ are common on lowpopulation worlds, which cannot maintain sufficient
diversity within their own populace.
Uouu is also a designated Embassy Exchange Point.
There are many of these, located at intervals throughout
the Hive Federation. Vessels carrying parties from the
Embassy meet at these points or drop off personnel to
wait for the next ship to come along. Any Hiver changing
vessels takes with it generic material from every world
and vessel its previous ship encountered. When two
large ships are in port at once there is a mass exchange
of genetic material. This is as normal to Hivers as saying
good morning whilst passing someone on the starport
concourse but non-Hiver visitors are sometimes made
uncomfortable by the notion that they are witnessing
some kind of extremely genteel orgy.
As with many similar worlds, Uouu is not well defended.
The highport has a few weapons but little point is seen
in spending a lot of money on protection against a
threat that can be as readily nullified by diplomacy. The
people of Uouu themselves have little to do with such
endeavours but are aware that the Federation as a whole
is protecting them whilst they contribute to its economy
in their own small way. This concept of individual
worlds doing as they please within the framework of
cooperation across the Hive Federation is a smaller
version of Hiver society as a whole.

