C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

H

I

R

T

Y

HIGH GUARD:

O

N

E

HIVE FEDERATION
Hiver starships are generally similar in most ways
to those used by other races. Smaller ships – and
many large ones – tend to have a high degree of
automation, allowing a lone Hiver or small crew to
operate a vessel. A Hiver commanding a starship is
less a captain in the conventional sense and more a
central ‘brain’ that directs the vessel through a living
crew or automated systems.

COMMAND CENTRES
The bridge of a Hiver ship tends to be larger
than those used elsewhere. This is partly to allow
duplication of controls such that different races can
crew the ship and partly due to additional systems. A
Hiver bridge contains a control area and a command
area. The former is where crewmembers operate the
ship’s controls, whilst the command area is outfitted
as the Hiver in command pleases. It may be an office,
a living space or a small biosphere where the Hiver can
enjoy the feeling of being in a natural environment.
A retractable partition separates the command and
control spaces, allowing the Hiver to either observe the
crew or close itself off. This can lead to crewmembers
wondering what the Hiver is plotting in there, which is
sometimes useful in keeping the crew slightly uneasy.

The control space also contains gunnery control
systems that might otherwise be distributed throughout
the vessel and a set of heavy bulkheads to protect
the whole command crew. The command and control
space thus counts as having Armoured Bulkheads and
in addition is provided with a separate life support and
comfort system including freshers and a tiny galley. A
command crew can survive in their armoured citadel
for days or even weeks using its internal batteries,
remaining properly fed and clean throughout. This is
useful when a ship has been heavily damaged but also
allows a Hiver to lock itself away from the crew for a
few weeks if this seems necessary.

Hiver command and control systems are of necessity
larger than their equivalents elsewhere. They are not
usually found aboard small craft intended to be piloted
by non-Hivers, although exceptions do exist.
Size of Ship
Size of Command and Control Centre
50 tons or less
8 tons
51–99 tons
16 tons
100–200 tons
25 tons
201–1000 tons
64 tons
2,000 tons or more 95 tons
Hiver command and control centres cost MCr1 per 100
tons of the ship they are installed in.

SHIP AUTOMATION

Larger Hive Federation ships typically carry a large
crew made up of various member races. They may
make use of some automation but it is in smaller
vessels that it is most prevalent. Hiver automation
goes beyond that offered by a Virtual Crew software
suite. Systems are designed to be entirely machine-run
and are often ‘black boxed’ with no external controls
or access points. Whilst this makes life difficult for
maintenance crews, if they are carried, it does suit
Hiver mentality. A Hiver operating a small ship does
not care all that much how the systems work, only that
they do what it wants. This is not dissimilar to the
attitude of many Hivers to other sophonts.
Hiver ship automation is normally installed in blocks.
Power plant and manoeuvre drive are usually one block,
jump drive, if fitted, is another. The bridge automation
package carries out all astrogation, piloting and sensor
tasks, along with handling routine communications.
Weapons automation is normally localised, with only a
command interface for the bridge. Thus a turret will be
operated by its automation package, which is located
in its base, with control from the command and control
centre often restricted to little more than telling the
automatic gunner it can fire at will.

235

