Automated systems do not require a Virtual Crewmember
suite; suitable software is already installed. There are
two standard modes of operation.
Semi-Automated Mode requires some input from the
command and control centre. The ship’s operator can
highlight a target and clear the weapon to engage,
after which it will do so until told to stop or pre-set
parameters are met. The weapon will make its own
decisions about when to fire but is essentially carrying
out a limited set of instructions and requires some
supervision. Similarly, the piloting system will fly the
ship between two points set by the operator, according
to whatever parameters have been pre-set. This might be
least-time, fuel efficiency or a set of waypoints, which
must be passed with a given speed and heading.
Semi-automated mode requires a fair amount of
oversight from the ship’s operator. A semi-automated
weapon will engage the target it is given but ignore
everything else, unless it has been placed in pointdefence mode in which case it will engage missiles and
torpedoes automatically but according to a simplistic
and possibly ineffective nearest-first fire plan. Semiautomated mode allows a small number of operators
to run quite a large ship but is most effective when
selecting pre-set routines. Going off-script can result in
chaos unless the operator is experienced.
Fully-Automated Mode is intended for the use of
untrained personnel. The ship’s operator simply selects
from a set of options and the vessel’s automated
systems do the rest. Options are simple but can be
amended by the user. This will end in disaster unless
the operator is skilled in the relevant field. For example,
the default option for ‘fly from this point to that point’
is a least-time course with a margin of error built in,
creating a transit that is predictable and around 20%
less than optimal in terms of time taken. A skilled pilot
can amend this to reduce the margin of error or build
in a dogleg to get out of the common shipping lanes
but someone who does not understand these concepts
is unlikely to get exactly the result they want and may
select options that result in a greatly slowed transit time
or arriving quickly but too fast to enter orbit. There are
warnings to prevent this but an unskilled person might
think they are cleverly wringing the most out of the
system by means of disabling them.
A ship in fully-automated mode can be sent off as a
drone to operate independently, although this can go
badly wrong if the user gives poor instructions. One
other problem is that automated ships do not have
enough crew to deal with crises or replace casualties,
so full automation is normally reserved for personal

236

transports and small craft. Larger vessels may use
some automation to reduce crew requirements,
especially in the case of vessels intended for freighting
and the like but retain the capability to run with a full
crew when necessary.

Operating an Automated Ship

Anyone who has completed the tutorials can operate
an automated ship, after a fashion. The vessel can
undertake only the simplest versions of common tasks
– it can take off from a planet, jump to another then
land at the starport but will do so in a relatively slow
and entirely predictable manner, with large margins for
safety and strict compliance with all procedures.
To be used by an unskilled person, a vessel must be
operating in fully-automated mode and suffers DM-4
on all skill checks. However, it does not need to make
checks for standard procedures such as docking or even
plotting a jump. Instead it does everything about 20%
slower than a standard crew would. Jump direction is
not affected but setup times and safety margins are.
A fully-automated ship that must use its weapons or
attempt to evade incoming fire still suffers this DM4, as its combat manoeuvres and firing patterns are
predictable and often inefficient.
Someone with Tactics (naval) or Electronics (remote ops)
can make use of semi-automated mode even if they do
not understand the principals involved. For example, a
pilot would understand the interplay of forces needed to
get the ship into orbit with a particular velocity, whereas
someone using a point-and-click interface can achieve
the same result without really knowing how it happens.
The pilot would be in a position to deal with anomalies
and emergencies, whereas the point-and-click user has
to hope the automatics can cope. Semi-automatic mode
imposes DM-2 on all actions but the user can apply
their Electronics (remote ops) or Tactics (naval) skill if
they have one.
Software intended to assist crewmembers does not affect
either mode, although it will apply if the automation is
turned off and crewmembers take full control.

Auto-Plotted Jumps

For unknown reasons, automated jumps are prone
to an increased risk of misjump. A jump plotted by
the automatic systems without the involvement of a
sentient astrogator is subject to the same DM-4 as all
other fully automated actions. For this reason, if just
one skilled crewmembers is carried it is usually an
astrogator. A jump plotted in semi-automatic mode by
someone without the Astrogator skill but with a basic

