understanding of the concepts involved suffers DM2. It is thought that a machine will produce several
apparently equal solutions to the same jump plot and
cannot distinguish between them but a sentient mind
somehow ‘feels’ which one is slightly better than the
others. Even someone who is not a trained astrogator
can do this to some extent and if one is available they
can oversee the plot. Their Astrogator skill applies in
this case and the DM-2 is not suffered.
Attempting to send a ship through jumpspace without
people on board enormously increases the risk of
misjump, for reasons unknown. In addition to the
DM-4 for the autoplot, a vessel suffers an additional
DM-4 if there are no conscious minds aboard. Lowberth passengers are by definition not conscious and
experiments with highly intelligent but non-sentient
minds have produced wildly differing results.

AUTOMATION

PACKAGES

Automation packages come in two types; small-ship and
component. An automation package normally controls
one function, such as a single battery of laser turrets
or the main power plant but applies to all supporting
functions. Thus a piloting package will also operate
the ship’s in-system navigational sensors but not a
long-range sensor package intended for astronomical
observations of other star systems.
Full Automation: This package controls all functions
of a non-starship (any vessel lacking a jump drive),
including weapons if fitted. Full automation for a nonstarship consumes 15% of the vessel’s tonnage at a
cost of MCr10 per 100 tons of hull. For a starship, full
automation includes control of the jump drive and the
ability to plot jumps. Full automation for a starship
consumes 20% of the ship’s tonnage at a cost of
MCr12.5 per 100 tons of hull.
Critical Systems Automation: This package controls
critical functions of the ship: piloting, astrogation,
communications, life support, manoeuvre, power plant
and jump drive for those vessels that have one. It
communicates with port authorities and other vessels
automatically in line with the operator’s wishes and
takes passengers where they want to go. It does not
operate internal systems such as food preparation
and general machinery. Critical Systems Automation
consumes 12% of a ship’s tonnage at a cost pf MCr8
per 100 tons of hull for non-starships and 15% of a
ship’s tonnage at a cost of MCr10 per 100 tons of hull
for any vessel capable of jump.

General Systems Automation: This package controls noncritical systems for any starship or non-starship. These
include communications and life support – overlapping
with a critical systems package if one is fitted – along
with general internal systems such as workshops,
galleys and medical bays. For most users this package
is all about comfort and convenience, enabling them to
auto-fabricate components for a project when needed
but for the most part just ensuring the galley produces
the desired meal at the correct time. General Systems
Automation consumes 5% of a ship’s tonnage at a cost
of MCr2 per 100 tons of hull.
Automated Piloting: An Automated Piloting system
conducts basic flight operations and can attempt to
evade fire in an emergency. It will also deal with routine
matters like liaising with port authority traffic controllers
without having to bother the operator. Automated
Piloting consumes 1% of a ship’s tonnage at a cost of
MCr5 per 100 tons of hull.
Automated Piloting and Astrogation: An Automated
Piloting and Astrogation system can use any sensors
fitted to a ship over interstellar distances if which they
are capable. It can search for nearby stars and gas
giants in a system but is unlikely to be able to gather
much data without a high-capability sensor system. The
automation package consumes 1% of the ship’s tonnage
and costs MCr8 per 100 tons of hull.
Automated Power Plant Operation: An Automated Power
Plant Operation system replaces all crewmembers
required to run the plant and can conduct very basic
self-maintenance. This is limited to line flushing, selfcleaning and automated removal, and replacement of
worn components from dedicated stocks. The system
consumes 2.5% of the ship’s tonnage and costs MCr5
per 100 tons of hull.
Automated Manoeuvre Drive Operation: An Automated
Manoeuvre Drive Operation system replaces all
crewmembers needed to run the drive, but does not
provide a means to pilot the ship. As with the power
plant system it is capable of limited self-maintenance.
The system consumes 2% of the ship’s tonnage and
costs MCr5 per 100 tons of hull.
Automated Jump Drive Operation: An Automated Jump
Drive Operation system replaces all crewmembers
needed to run the drive but does not provide a means
to plot a jump. As with the power plant system it
is capable of limited self-maintenance. The system
consumes 2% of the ship’s tonnage and costs MCr8 per
100 tons of hull.

237

