8
11

7

8

2

6

4

5

10

3
1

DECK 1

9
LEGEND
1. Bridge
2. Sensors
3. Power plant
4. M-drive
5. J-drive
6. Common areas
7. Cargo hold
8. Particle barbette
9. Med bay
10. Repair drones
11. Airlock

‘Whimsy’ is the nearest single-word approximation of a Gurvin sign code, which translates as ‘to be
used as desired and to facilitate the user changing their mind for no apparent reason’. The Whimsy
is intended as a personal transport for a Hiver whose business may be specialised or change focus
regularly. As such it has to be large enough to fit a range of different equipment or carry all manner
of cargo and necessities for the latest project.
Hull form is typically Hiver; a boxy structure with a planeing front as a token concession to
aerodynamics. The entire hull is well armoured for a civilian ship, with a pair of particle accelerator
barbettes on the dorsal surface for deterrence. Internally, the ship seems smaller than it actually
is, since most systems are ‘black boxed’ away from the operator’s sight. The drives and power plant
are conventionally located aft, with only small crawlways for inspection and maintenance.
Entry is by way of an airlock and ramp at the front of the vessel, giving access to the single
occupied deck. This is located as centrally as possible with machinery spaces, fuel tanks and
armour between the operator areas and any external threats. The forward airlock opens into a cargo
area that has fittings for modular equipment, accommodation spaces or whatever else the user
wants to carry. Aft of this is a tiny accommodation space with three multispecies cabins and a
small common area. Immediately aft, through a heavy bulkhead, is the command centre.
The command area can be crewed by almost any species but can operate solely on the instructions of
an unskilled individual. Within the bulkheaded area is a space reserved for the Hiver operator, set up
to its liking. This area can be reconfigured to suit another species if necessary but vessels of this kind
are normally encountered carrying a single Hiver or one with a small entourage of other races.

241

