As with many Hiver ships, the Practicality is named for a partial translation of a gesture
sequence in Gurvin. Vessels of this type are very common in the Hive Federation and well
beyond it, carrying out all manner of tasks from naval patrols to exploration, diplomacy and
small-scale trade. Unlike the Whimsy, these ships are not fully automated and would normally
carry a crew of mixed races. A vessel might be operated by one or more Hivers and their
entourage but it is not uncommon to find Practicality ships plying the spaceways without
a single Hiver aboard. Some are bought by non-Federation clients, who typically retain the
multispecies control room and use the associated chamber as a ship’s office or captain’s suite.
The Practicality is constructed on a boxy hull, with a sloping front. Unusually, the slope is
from ventral to dorsal, and takes the form of a large entry ramp which can be lowered gently
or dropped with an almighty clang if circumstances warrant it. The ramp leads into the main
cargo hold, which as usual for Hiver vessels is designed to be reconfigured for a variety of roles.
The main hold can stow 200 tons of cargo or equipment, with the remaining ‘cargo’ capacity
distributed in small blocks throughout the lower deck. These spaces are typically used to store
equipment, mission supplies or other items that will not be moved in and out of the ship a lot,
or else are converted into additional working spaces.
The remainder of the lower deck is taken up with fuel tanks and a hangar capable of
accommodating up to 50 tons of small craft. This is awkward to use – to say the least – when
the ship is on the ground but can function as a garage for ground vehicles or as an excursion
bay for exploration work if small craft are not carried.
The upper deck contains the ship’s centrally-located control room, with a crew or passenger
accommodation area forward of it. This is laid out as three blocks of three cabins, each with
a cabin-equivalent of common space and a 24-ton space at the very fore end of the ship.
This has extensive observation windows on some vessels and is often used as a dining hall to
impress visitors the ship’s operator wants something from. Aft of the command space is the
automated engineering section. This can run entirely without a live crew and even when crewed
it is normally controlled from the command centre. There are accessways for maintenance but
on some ships they are only opened during major refits.
The Practicality mounts four missile barbettes, two on each flank, which are fully automated.
All are located close to configurable ‘cargo’ areas that can be used as missile magazines if the
ship is serving in a paramilitary role. More commonly the ship does not carry reloads. A battery
of four particle accelerator barbettes is located on the dorsal surface. These, too, are automated
although the ship’s electronic warfare and nuclear damper systems are not. A vessel serving as
a warship would carry gunners and defensive technicians, all of whom crew their weapons from
the command centre.
The upper deck also contains a curious ‘mission complex’; a mostly open-plan area that is
part library, part laboratory and part workshop. On some vessels the partition between this
area and the medical bay is removed, creating a distinct mad-scientist’s lair feeling for
some visitors.
Automation levels are high, enabling this relatively large ship to be crewed by just one or two
people at need. The vessel is clumsy in this mode, however, and has no capacity to deal with
disasters. More commonly a multiskilled entourage will accompany a Hiver operator and ships
that might encounter danger will usually have a full crew.

243

