4,000
HULL POINTS

The Credibility is named for its connotations of persuasiveness and effectiveness as a diplomatic
platform, military intervention vessel and economic warfare participant, although most examples
serve in relatively mundane roles such as cargo transports and liners.
Hull form is typically ‘Hive Federation’, utilitarian and rather ugly. The main hull is constructed in
the form of a lightly armoured box, with a sloped frontal surface. There are three decks running the
length of the ship, each with a general function. The lowest deck is double-height and given over
almost entirely to modular space and fuel. This may be used for cargo or fitted out as the operator
requires. On vessels operating in the commercial sector this area may be fitted out for passenger
transport, sometimes in great luxury. A rapid transfer to military operations can result in these
expensive fittings being wrecked by ground troops using them as barracks.
The uppermost deck contains part of the drive and power system, fuel and hangars for up to six 50ton small craft. The middle deck centres on a command suite plus a library/briefing room/conference
hall suitable for most missions the vessel may undertake. The remainder of the drives and fuel are
aft of this command complex, with crew accommodation forward.
As with many Hiver vessels, defences are good. The hull is lightly armoured and protected by an
extensive point-defence fit. Electronic warfare, sandcasters and nuclear dampers provide additional
defence. The laser turrets are grouped in pairs all over the hull, with all primary weapons located
on the sloping forward face of the vessel. Three particle accelerator bays and three missile bays are
grouped in a rosette arrangement reminiscent of the six eyes of a Hiver, alternating weapon types
around the ring.
The Credibility is not heavily automated, although general functions are normally run by automatic
systems. Since it is intended to function as a warship at times, this class tends to run with a full
crew in case of damage. The cargo area can be used to carry a significant force of ground troops,
allowing a single Credibility to deal with most minor trouble. Typically the possibility that the ship
might be full of bloodthirsty Ithklur warriors is the ‘presumed stick’ that accompanies whatever
carrots the Hiver in charge of the vessel feels like offering in negotiation. Indeed, much of the
credibility of this class (and its negotiator-operator) comes from the possibility that it might be
equipped for planetside intervention. Exactly what any given ship is set up to do is rarely obvious
and often deliberately misrepresented.

247

