C E N T R A L

X

S U P P L Y

C A T A L O G U E

HIVE FEDERATION

The majority of Hiver equipment is broadly similar to
that used by other races, although with handles and
grips suitable for Hiver ‘fingers’. The unusual body
structure of Hivers means that devices intended to be
held in two hands by a humanoid are extremely awkward
for a Hiver to use and are often completely redesigned
in terms of ergonomics. Function tends to be more or
less the same as elsewhere, however, and in many cases
there are Hiver and non-Hiver variants of common items
with the same internal components.
A common solution to the ‘two hands’ problem is for
items to be carried on a harness strapped to the Hiver’s
body or sometimes slung around the ‘neck’ formed by
the primary appendage when elevated for vision. It is
not uncommon to see a Hiver walking on four limbs with
the ‘head’ elevated, reaching over its own back with the
sixth (reproductive) limb to operate a device strapped to
its torso. For the most part, however, Hivers prefer to get
others to do the work and may carry nothing more than
a Voder.
Voder (TL12): Manufactured with varying degrees of
sophistication, the Voder is often assumed to be nothing
more than a translation device from ‘Hiver’ (more
commonly Gurvin) to Anglic or whatever other language
is desired. This is its main function, translating the
movements of the Hiver’s body and limbs into audible
sounds, but a Voder does more than this.

The translation function alone is impressive, since it
relies on the detection of movements by contact with
the Hiver’s body rather than visual cues. A sign-to-audio
translation is not all that difficult if the device is held
by someone else and pointed at the Hiver but Hivers
are not keen on the idea that they can be silenced by
their Voder-holder wandering off or foolishly (perhaps
deliberately) allowing an obstruction to come between
the Hiver and its subject mid-manipulation.
A Voder also functions as a portable computer suite
and electronic communications device. Most Voders
are heavily encrypted and secured, and capable of
interfacing with almost any device in use throughout
the Hive Federation. It is widely suspected that
electronic equipment exported by the Federation
contains ‘backdoors’ that can be exploited by any
Hiver with a Voder. Whether or not this is true, a Voder
is powerful enough to support a potent electronics
intrusion software system and has a transmitter
capable of broadcasting a jamming signal if the device
is suitably configured.
Some Voders also carry sensor packages. Most of these
are simple medical monitoring suites, which help the
Hiver spot deficiencies early and analyse potential food
in great detail. Some have more specialist systems
such as atmosphere and water analysis devices, radar
mapping of the surrounding terrain and so forth.
A standard Voder capable of translating most known
languages costs Cr150. One capable of running a
medical monitoring and food-analysis package typically
costs Cr250. For Cr500 a Hiver can obtain a Voder
capable of running any one of the following packages,
one of which is pre-installed. Of course, a Hiver may
have a Voder for every occasion.
Medical Package: A medical package monitors the
Hiver’s general health and condition, and allows early
detection of deficiency diseases. It will advise on
treatments and remedies, and can administer dietary
supplements or mild pharmaceuticals to assist in
healing. A Hiver with a medical package in place
regenerates damage 25% more quickly and can survive
more serious injuries. The Hiver can take additional
damage up to its twice starting END before actually
dying (see Hiver Physiology on page 211).

250

