Navigation Package: A navigation package includes radar
and laser mapping tools and a holographic map display.
This can be supplemented by data from small drones
or devices carried by other personnel and also includes
a basic mineral/chemical analysis unit. From this, a
navigation package can extrapolate the likely presence
of valuable materials or possible toxins and create a line
of sight map of the surrounding topography within 200
metres, as well as an estimate of underlying rock types.
Over time it is possible to build up a basic estimate of
local climate and weather, plus an idea of conditions in
recent history. Hivers being what they are, this system
is more commonly used to make sure the Hiver is safe
than to conduct bold exploration of an untamed world.
Electronics (Intrusion) Package: An intrusion package
contains a set of passive and active electronic sensors,
enabling the user to trace power cables or detect
transmissions. The ostensible purpose of such devices
is to aid in locating faults aboard a starship or in an
advanced installation and enable communications to
be established with any radio-frequency system. It is
widely suspected – and correctly so – that an electronics
package also contains a radio jammer and ‘bug
stomper’, which will cause electronic listening devices
to burn out or cease transmitting. It can be used to
detect such devices without disabling them, if desired.
The existence of an intrusion package is less widely
suspected. This is a set of auto-hacking tools optimised
to the protocols of standard commercial devices. It
can automatically access any low-end commercial
electronics system produced by the Hive Federation
unless it has had after-market security alterations.
This allows the Hiver to penetrate basic devices such
as cheap personal communications or entertainment
units. More secure systems such as standard electronic
locks or more expensive communications equipment or
those that have been modified to remove the backdoor
protocols, can be penetrated if a Difficult (10+) check
is made. The unit is treated as having a skill level of 0 if
the Hiver lacks relevant skills.
An intrusion package also allows an attempt to
penetrate fully secured systems but in this case it is
merely a facilitator for the Hiver’s own hacking skills.
The intrusion system provides remote access but no
more than that. It cannot automatically grant access to
a secured starship’s bridge, for example, but it would
allow the Hiver to try to bypass the locking system. The
door to the purser’s office on a typical free trader, on
the other hand, might be operated by a Hiver-supplied
mechanism which has not been modified, allowing the
user of an intrusion-equipped Voder to wander in and
out at will.

PERSONAL

TRANSPORT

Hiver vehicles are generally similar to those used by
other races, only with mushroom-shaped stools for
Hivers to use as well as more conventional seating. Most
vehicles are set up either with Hiver controls or a system
more suited to another race, as there is generally little
room for both types of controls. However, function and
cost tends to be about the same as in other cultures.
Hivers do make extensive use of personal grav harnesses.
This is the equivalent of a grav belt but built into a utility
harness. The grav lifting unit masses eight kilograms at
TL12, dropping to five kilograms at TL14, but is often
left off unless expected to be necessary. Without the
lifter the harness resembles a typical Hiver’s equipment
harness at first glance but the additional straps and
mounting points will usually be suffice to identify it on
a closer look. When active, the harness functions like a
standard grav belt. It costs Cr100000.

FURNITURE

Hivers can use beds made for humans and similar
creatures, although they prefer a double bed. Any
similar sized space with something soft to lie on will
do; a Hiver will simply drop to the floor and curl its legs
around it when it wants to sleep. By choice, Hivers use
a sleeping mat that is circular with a slightly domed
centre. Most do not seem particularly attached to their
mat but some will take a mat from their home nest with
them on distant travels.
Hivers require different plumbing since they
cannot use human toilets very easily but most other
furnishings can be removed or ignored. Hivers do not
use chairs and do not really need any sort of support –
again, they just plonk themselves down on the ground
when they want to rest. However, when dealing with
humans, Ithklur and similar ‘far-too-tall’ races, Hivers
like to use a ‘Hiver stool’.
A Hiver stool is a mushroom-shaped support for the
Hiver’s body, which allows it to keep its ‘head’ at the
height of the tall races. This is supposedly for comfort
but there are many who believe that it has more to do
with the difficulty of manipulating someone who is
looking down at you.

251

