C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

H

I

R

T

Y

F

O

U

HIVER TRAVELLERS

Creating a Hiver Traveller is generally similar to other
races, though physical differences and the unusual
nature of Hiver society may produce some divergence
from the norm. There is no reason why a Hiver might not
wander off on its own to travel and indulge its curiosity,
but most Hivers would not call this ‘adventuring’ – that
sounds a bit dangerous. A Hiver Traveller is likely to want
to travel in comfort and to take safe options unless the
more hazardous approach is highly interesting. It will also
prefer to find at least a couple of companions who can
take risks for it, and may go to considerable lengths to
cultivate a relationship with someone who can be used as
a bodyguard, distraction and/or catspaw.

R

a Hiver is in a civilised environment with a wide range
of foodstuffs available it will be able to obtain what it
needs for a proper diet, even if the people selling it do
not imagine anyone would eat that stuff. However, when
a Hiver is operating in the wilds or on a backwater planet
– or in a closed environment like a starship where care
has not been taken to ensure correct food is available, an
imbalance or shortage may become serious.

The following modifiers apply to all Hivers: STR -2

Every 2D days without a guaranteed correct diet, a
Hiver must make an Average (8+) END check. If this
is unsuccessful, negative Effect must be subtracted
from one of the Hiver’s six characteristics, selected at
random. A deficiency disease can affect cognitive ability
or physical capabilities, or both. Once deterioration has
begun it continues until the disease is treated. Every 2D
days, the Hiver loses 1D from one of its characteristics
chosen at random. Treatment requires restoring a proper
balance of nutrients and some supportive medical care.
Every 1D days with a proper diet the Hiver regains the
Effect of an Average (8+) Medic check or a minimum of 1
point from the worst affected of its characteristics. If any
characteristic reaches zero as a result of deficiency disease
the Hiver is incapacitated. It loses 1 point from each
characteristic until all are at zero, at which point it dies.

Resolve (RES)

Hiver Traits

CREATING A HIVER

TRAVELLER

Creating a Hiver Traveller is generally similar to other
races, except that there is no formal rank structure in
Hiver society. Hivers have no equivalent of SOC, but
instead use a characteristic named Resolve (RES). Most
characteristics are rolled on 2D, but Hiver Travellers roll
Resolve on 1D+6.

The Resolve characteristic is a measure of the Hiver’s
will, intellect and desire to get its own way. It is linked
to curiosity in some ways, and might be considered
an enabler. That is, a Hiver who is highly curious but
timid will not learn much; one who has big plans and
good manipulation skills but lacks conviction will never
achieve much. A Hiver with a low Resolve tends to be a
conformist, a good and dependable member of society
who will cooperate with others for the common good
and does not try to use others as pawns all that much
– in other words the sort of person manipulators like to
make use of. A Resolve score of 7+ indicates that the
Hiver has sufficient conviction to undertake significant
manipulations – though whether it has the finesse to
carry them off is another matter.

Deficiency Diseases

Whilst being debilitated by disease is not the epitome of
free-wheeling interstellar adventure, it is a factor in the
lives of Hiver Travellers. It can be assumed that when

Hiver Travellers all have the following Traits.
Hiver Physiology: Hivers gain a +2 DM on all checks to
resist disease or chemical toxins, and have a natural
2 points of armour from their leathery skin. Hivers can
regrow small parts of their body - fingers, sections of skin
or even organs, but not eyes or ears – even if completely
severed. If a Hiver takes enough damage to kill it – STR,
DEX and END all reduced to zero, it becomes dormant
rather than dying. The Hiver can take additional damage
up to its END before actually dying. If it is not killed, it
begins to regenerate negative END at the rate of 1D3
points per hour. When END reaches 0, STR, DEX and END
are reset to 1 and the Hiver can begin to function again. If
a Hiver’s END is reduced to a level worse than its negative
END, it dies. Hivers are prone to deficiency diseases
and must maintain a correct diet. If the proper balance
of nutrients is not available for 2D days, the Hiver may
become ill. See Deficiency Diseases, above.

255

