Physical Coward: Hivers are frightened of physical
violence and aggression. If a Hiver is attacked at a range
of 25m or less, or feels threatened by such an attack
they must make an immediate Resolve (RES) check.
This will usually be Average (8+) difficulty but may be
modified by circumstances. If the Hiver fails the check
it must immediately abandon what it is doing and make
a defensive reaction. This may mean scuttling away to
hide or seek cover, dashing behind a crewmate or simply
cowering on the ground, but may not be an offensive
action of any kind. If the check is passed the Hiver’s
rational thoughts quell its instinctive fear and it may act
normally, but suffers a -2DM on all actions made whilst
under such a threat.
Sense of Smell/No Sense of Smell: Most Hivers have no
sense of smell, and receive the No Sense of Smell trait.
They can taste ingested items and may faintly detect
very strong odours through their cloaca but cannot
detect smells through respiration. Irritants such as tear
gas will still work on such Hivers, but they cannot be
detected by sense of smell. On a straight 2D roll of 9+,
made when the Hiver reaches maturity, the Hiver has a
sense of smell. It is not very good by human standards,
imposing a -2DM on attempts to detect or identify
anything by smell alone.
Stability: Hivers are relatively low to the ground and
can use as many as six limbs to balance if necessary.
Alternatively, Hivers can stand on some limbs and grasp
nearby objects. In any situation where immobility is
important, or where a Hiver must move under difficult
conditions, a +2DM applies. Thus a Hiver moving
across a slanted deck towards a hatch as the air rushes
out of a holed compartment will generally fare better
than a humanoid crewmate. One limb could be used to
carry or drag something – or perhaps someone – whilst
others provide traction and grip. The positive DM can be
applied whilst climbing, providing holds are available
suitable foe Hiver’s hand-equivalents.

HIVER SKILLS

Hivers can learn almost any skill that other races can.
However, they cannot gain Leadership skill. If a Hiver
wants people to do something it will manipulate them
with deception, diplomacy or persuasion instead.

Animals

Hivers do not interact with animals the way most
other species do. Animals are not used for farming
or riding in low-tech Hiver societies, and riding an
animal for recreation is unheard-of. Instead, Animals
skill relates mainly to ‘farming’ small creatures as
part of maintaining a good diet. A Hiver might horrify
crewmates by allowing a nest of rats to exist aboard
their ship, trapping the odd one to add to its food.

256

More commonly the animals are worms, insects and the
like which can be easily contained. The Hiver take on
Animals skill also includes establishing a cooperative
arrangement with larger creatures which have a suitable
burrow, such as the snohl.

Carouse

Hivers do not party like other creatures. Meaningless
chit-chat, canapes or riotous drinking songs hold no
attraction … but that does not mean a Hiver cannot be
the life and soul of the party. Of course, it is all a poise.
A Hiver can manipulate people so they have a good
time, to various ends. Whether it is to make contacts or
to get someone to do a specific thing, a partying Hiver is
a working Hiver.

Science (sociology)

The Hiver study of sociology is quite broad but focussed
on how society is affected by many factors. Thus a Hiver
social scientist may know a little about planetology
but only in terms of how axial tilt can affect the social
dynamics of a nest. By definition, Hiver sociology is also
the study of manipulation but this is an academic study
rather than a practical one. A sociologist may know all
the details of the great manipulations but still be unable
to talk its way out of a nutrient paste wrapper.

Streetwise

The Streetwise skill normally applies to societies other
than Hiver nests, as normal manipulation is more useful
there. A Hiver with Streetwise has experience of dealing
with other cultures ‘from the bottom up’ and may be
quite adept at finding itself a niche where its obvious
alien-ness is put aside due to its usefulness or web of
protectors who think they owe it a favour.

Survival

The Survival skill represents the usual wilderness
skills for Hivers but also the ability to prepare properly
balanced meals from whatever is available. This
may mean scraping yucky mould off the under-deck
plumbing but to a Hiver this is the equivalent of hunting
game and gathering berries.

Tactics (economic)

Where other strategists think in terms of starships and
ground forces, Hivers are skilled at economic warfare. The
Tactics (economic) skill can be used whenever a plan is
formulated to influence or disrupt an organised economy.
This could be large, such as a planetary economy or
relatively small; for example, a Hiver might plan to
undermine the share price of a small shipping company.
Simple profit is one reason but the Hiver might want to
weaken the company or use its financial vulnerability to
coerce it into doing what the Hiver wants.

