Hiver Nests
2D
2–3

Nest Type
Benefits
Notes
Specialist – Profession (any), 1 Additional mustering out
A nest specialising in industry for profit or
Industrial
benefit of any type, including additional cash
the construction of a specialist item such
rolls.
as starships.
4–5 Specialist – Broker, 1 additional cash roll upon mustering
A nest specialising in mercantile and
Economic
out.
economic matters.
6–8 General/
Resolve +1, 1 additional benefit roll of any type. Most nests have no specific focus beyond
Nurturing
nurturing and supporting their members.
9–10 Specialist – EDU +1, Science (any)
A nest specialising in research and
Academic
experimentation in one or more fields.
11– Specialist – RES +1, Persuade
A nest spiralising in the social sciences,
12
Social
particularly the art of manipulation.

BACKGROUND SKILLS

AND BASIC TRAINING

All Hivers receive a general education from their nest. Whilst
basic education tends to be similar for all Hivers, the type
of nest a Hiver comes from may influence its development.
Nest type can be selected or determined randomly using a
2D roll.
All Hivers from the Hive Federation are fluent in the sign
forms of Hiver and Gurvin, and may also know Anglic. Those
with a Voder can translate all common languages and a few
spoken in areas on the far side of Hiver territory from the
other races of Charted Space. Knowing a language means
being able to understand it and write it, but not to speak it
without the aid of a Voder or similar device.
All Hivers gain background skills at level 0 like other
sophonts, receiving a number of skills equal to their
Education DM. These skills are chosen from those listed
on P8 of the Traveller Core Rulebook. In addition, all
Hivers gain Persuade 0 and Survival 0. They do not receive
basic training in their first term (or any other term) but will
gain skills, characteristic modifications or other benefits
depending on their nest type.
Skills and benefits are gained only from the Hiver’s first home
nest. Some Hivers change nests many times, but will succeed
or fail in their new nest based on what they already know.

CAREERS

Hivers can enter most careers and function within
them, but are unsuited to any field requiring combat or
aggressive confrontation. Similarly, highly physical careers
such as being a professional athlete are an unlikely
choice for a Hiver. Some do become artists, musicians
and even stand-up comedians, but this is always with
some goal in mind. Hivers do not create art for the sake
of expression; they create art to manipulate people. There

Hiver Traveller Creation: Key Concepts

Hiver Traveller creation is complex, like their
society. The career options open to them depend
on the sort of nest they belong to. A Hiver’s first
nest determines their initial education and skills,
and is the most important since Hivers do not have
an equivalent to basic training in careers. When a
Hiver changes nest it takes with it whatever skills it
has and does not get any additional ones for joining
a new nest. The Hiver must make use of what it
has, so the decision to change nests is a weighty
one. Moving outside a Hiver’s area of expertise
without the skills to be a success elsewhere can
result in complete disaster and disgrace.
Hivers that enter careers outside Hive Federation
territory use the normal rules for those careers. For
Hivers within the Federation, career and society are
intertwined to a much greater degree. Survival and
career progress are handled differently; Hivers can
gain and lose status depending on their successes
– or perceived successes – in their chosen field and
are unlikely to suffer serious harm in the course of
their activities unless they meet with misfortune.
Advancement does not bring with it conventional
ranks. Instead a Hiver’s status in society may
change – and can increase or decrease along
the way. Almost all Hivers dream of reaching
Manipulator status, but few do. The rest might
content themselves with being a well-respected
Senior in their nest… but there is always feeling
that those who fall short of Manipulator were
lacking in merit or resolve.

is no impediment to entering such a career if the Hiver
can physically perform the necessary tasks, but there will
always be an underlying aim.

257

