It is conceivable a Hiver might enter a career outside its
home society, for example joining the Imperial interstellar
Scout Service as a consultant. All attempts to join such
services are subject to a -4DM, increased to -8 if the
service is one requiring conflict. Once the Hiver has
joined, survival and advancement proceed normally.
In their own careers, Hivers do not check for survival.
The Hive Federation is in general a very safe place for
Hivers, so only bad luck or the actions of others are likely
to harm a Hiver. Qualification and advancement are also
handled differently to the Core Traveller Rules. A Hiver
automatically qualifies for a given career if it is a member
of a nest that supports that career. However, some Hivers
are unsuited to their current field of endeavour. Thus
rather than attempting to qualify for a career, a Hiver
joins a nest working in that field and is automatically
accepted into the career, but will suffer a negative DM to
Advancement checks if they do not meet the minimum
requirements. This means that junior members of a career
tend to stay that way unless they have real talent, which
is unlikely to be coincidental.
A Hiver checks for Advancement each term, but
Advancement is always governed by RES rather than a
characteristic keyed to its career – doing well in Hiver
society is all about convincing others to look up to you
rather than being good at your job. For a Hiver to be sure
of advancing in their career they must actually be good
at what they do (avoiding the negative Advancement DM)
and also good at convincing people they are.
An Advancement check is made by rolling 2D and applying
the RES DM. The result is applied immediately, and can
change on the next Advancement check. For example, a
Hiver might have a good few years and be considered a
Senior, but then fall into eclipse and be regarded once
again as merely an Adult. If Manipulator status is acquired,
this is not necessarily permanent. An eclipsed Manipulator
is will usually want people to believe they are keeping a low
profile whilst they work on something big.
The first time a Hiver reaches Senior status, and when
Manipulator status is achieved, a one-off benefit is
gained. This depends on the Hiver’s field of endeavour. A
Hiver that loses either of these statuses and later regains
them does not gain the benefit again, even if they are now
working in a different field of endeavour.
As already noted, Hivers do not receive basic training in
their career, either at the start or if they switch careers.
Changing careers requires moving to a different nest,
though this may be done remotely if the Hiver cannot
make the move in person. Changing nests is, on the face
of it, a trivial administrative matter. However, there are
nuances that may not initially be apparent. A Hiver that
changes nests remotely misses out on the opportunity

258

to meet new nest-mates in person and establish a
relationship with them.
Changing career is automatic if the new nest accepts the
Hiver. If not, it can try again in a future term. A Hiver who
fails to join a new nest can stay with their current career
and nest or enter the Hiver Generalist career. A Hiver that
wants to move to a different assignment that is supported
by their nest can do so automatically. One that wishes to
move to an assignment not supported by their nest must
move to one that does support the new assignment.

Changing Nest

At the end of any term a Hiver can try to join another
nest. This is a matter of convincing the new nest’s
members they want the Hiver to join and has nothing to
do with competence in the field. Incompetence will slow
advancement but Hiver society allows any individual to bash
away at something they are no good at if that suits their
purposes. Thus to join a new nest a Diplomat or Persuade
check is made at the difficulty level noted below.
If the Hiver is successful, it may enter any career
supported by their new nest type. It may also attempt a
transition manipulation. This requires a Persuade check
at the noted difficulty level. If successful, the Hiver gains
an additional roll on the cash benefits table, representing
clever manipulation of the credit transfer process.
Members of the new nest will be watching carefully, since
a nest-transition manipulation is a good measure of a
Hiver’s prowess. If the Persuade check is failed, the Hiver
suffers a penalty equal to the negative Effect on their
Advancement check this term.
Hivers who choose not to make a transition manipulation
are taking a safe, cautious approach which does not mark
them as destined for greatness. However, since many
transition manipulations include attempts to make everyone
think the Hiver is not up to anything devious members of
the new nest cannot be sure whether they have just been
joined by a ‘plodder’ or a master manipulator. Thus no
penalty or stigma attaches to taking the safe route since
Hiver society is so thoroughly obfuscatory that nobody
can be sure who did or did not do anything, nothing or
something entirely different.

Changing Nest
Nest Type
Industrial
Economic
General/
Nurturing
Academic
Social

Diplomat/
Persuade Check
Routine (6+)
Average (8+)
Easy (4+)

Transition
Manipulation
Average (8+)
Difficult (10+)
Average (8+)

Average (8+)
Difficult (10+)

Average (8+)
Very Difficult (12+)

