HIVER LIFE EVENTS

Hivers have life events like other races, differing mainly in details. Whenever a Life Event is rolled on the Events
Table, determine what has happened by rolling 2D on the table below.

Hiver Benefits
2D
2

Event
You were injured in an accident or perhaps
even by violence. Roll on the Hiver Injury
Table, below.

3

You suffered a deficiency disease which took
its toll on your health. Lose 1 point from any
characteristic, determined randomly

4

5

Your previously good relationship with someone
– this may be another Hiver or someone from
outside the Hive Federation – collapses. It was
probably your fault for manipulating them too
hard but you will not admit that. Gain an Enemy.
Your work clashes with that of another
individual, leading to friction. Despite your
attempts to resolve the situation or modify their
thinking they remain unreasonably opposed to
you. Gain a Rival..

6

You meet someone useful and manipulate them
into thinking they owe you their loyalty. Gain
an Ally.

7

You make some useful connections. Gain a
Contact.

8

Someone was plotting behind your back! You
discovered their intentions to make you their
puppet and are now wary of them. Convert one
Ally or Contact into a Rival. If you have no Allies or
Contacts, gain an Enemy

9

You travel and gain new knowledge, which can
be used to your advantage. Gain +2 on your next
advancement check.

10

You change nests. This is a golden opportunity to
shed some of your previous negative credit. Gain
one additional Benefits cash roll.

11

You are fortunate to meet a great Manipulator, who
shares some secrets with you. You gain a level of
Deception, Diplomat or Persuade.

12

You are fortunate to meet a great Manipulator,
who shares some secrets with you. You realise it
would not do such a thing without a goal in mind.
Perhaps the Manipulator recognised your potential
and wanted to help but more likely it has a plan
for you. Either way, you gain RES +1 and a general
feeling of paranoia.

HIVER INJURIES

Many minor injuries can be regenerated but major damage requires medical intervention.

Hiver Injuries
1D
1

Result
You were severely injured. Reduce one physical characteristic by 1D and the other two by 2 points each.

2

You were severely injured, losing an entire limb in a manner that cannot be regrown. Either reduce
all physical characteristics by 3 and live with a missing limb or use a robotic one, in which case
reduction is 1 point per physical characteristic and you sign with a weird accent.

3

You lost some of your eyes in a manner that cannot be regrown. You can still see but the image is
imperfect. You suffer a -1DM on all tasks requiring visual acuity.

4

You were severely scarred in a manner which horrifies other Hivers. Not for your appearance, but
because it reminds them that physical violence could happen to their bodies. You suffer a -2DM on all
direct interactions with other Hivers.

5

You got badly hurt and it shook your confidence even though you recovered. Reduce Resolve by 1.

6

You made a full recovery from your injuries. It was an interesting experience, but not one to be repeated.

AGING

Hivers become adults at around age 14. Their first term begins at this age. Aging proceeds at almost the same
rate as humans, but begins at age 38. This will be the end of the sixth career term. Anagathic drugs do not work
on Hivers.

261

