MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

You are seriously injured, equivalent to a roll of 2 on the Hiver Injury table.

2

Repeated failures have disheartened you. Make a RES check. If you fail, your confidence was shaken and you
pass up several opportunities. Lose a number of Benefit rolls equal to the negative Effect. If you succeed, you
prove you were right all along (or convince others that you were even if you were not). Gain an Enemy whose
plans you cleverly thwarted.

3

You presented a well-researched thesis with a powerful argument for its acceptance and ended up embarrassed
and discredited. You do not know if you were just plain wrong or if there are other manipulators working against
you. Either way, you lose RES –1.

4

One of your projects went horribly awry but your community rallied around and got you out of trouble without
even being manipulated… by you, at least. It is clear someone intervened but you do not know why. You do not
have to leave the career but gain a Contact to whom you owe a huge favour. If this is not repaid you will gain a
powerful Enemy but if you do what they ask of you when the time comes you will gain them as an Ally instead.

5

Whether you deserved it or not, word got out about some actions on your part that look bad. You cannot
manipulate anyone who knows about this, so have left your old life behind to find a new start.

6

Your nest has ceased to exist due to a disaster you may or may not have caused. The survivors were mostly
absorbed by other nests but for some reason none would take you.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You are manipulated into taking part in a major project outside your normal field of endeavour. You may roll on
any Service Skills table for any career and gain the indicated skill.

4

Things generally go rather well whenever you are involved and you are pleased with the results. More
importantly, you get the credit. Gain DM+4 on your next advancement check.

5

You realise some ‘accidents’ were attempts on your life. You are not sure who is behind it despite checking out
all likely culprits. Gain 3 Contacts, one of whom is secretly an Enemy. You now carry a gun and have gained a
level of Gun Combat skill.

6

An opportunity arises to obtain specialist training. Make a RES check. If successful you may gain a level in any
skill you possess.

7

A Life Event occurs.

8

You travel aboard starships. Take one level in Pilot, Astrogation or Engineer.

9

You become involved with the embassy and visit many other nests. Gain an Ally and a Contact.

10

You spend considerable time outside the Hive Federation and have extensively studied various alien races. By
‘studied’ you mean manipulated, of course. Gain an Ally. If you want, you may make an immediate Benefits
cash roll but this brings with it a Rival who may have been the source of the money.

11

You provide expert advice to teams engaged in preservation work in the local wilderness. Gain a level of
Animals, Recon or Survival.

12

Your nest is threatened and you help figure out a complex manipulation to deflect the threat. Gain a level of
Science (sociology) and RES +1 or gain a level of Persuade and a Contact.

263

