MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

You are seriously injured, equivalent to a roll of 2 on the Hiver Injury table.

2

You are threatened with violence and do not like it at all. Make a RES check. If you fail, your confidence is shaken
and you pass up several opportunities. Lose a number of Benefit rolls equal to the negative Effect. If you succeed,
gain an Enemy who is even more resentful at being manipulated into not hurting you the first time.

3

It all went wrong. You do not know if you failed to plan properly or there are other manipulators working against
you. Either way, you lose RES –1.

4

Everything went wrong, then suddenly it was all fine again. Someone intervened but you do not know why.
You do not have to leave the career but gain a Contact to whom you owe a huge favour. If this is not repaid
you will gain a powerful Enemy but if you do what they ask of you when the time comes you will gain them as
an Ally instead.

5

Your reputation is blackened, which you may or may not deserve, but either way you cannot manipulate anyone
who knows about your shame. You left your old life behind to get away from this situation.

6

Your nest was involved in conflict and has ceased to exist. The survivors were mostly absorbed by other nests
but for some reason none would take you.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You are manipulated into taking part in a major project outside your normal field of endeavour. You may roll on
any Service Skills table for any career and gain the indicated skill.

4

Things generally go rather well whenever you are involved and you are pleased with the results. More
importantly, you get the credit. Gain DM+4 on your next advancement check.

5

You make contacts and influence people. Gain D3 Contacts.

6

An opportunity arises to obtain specialist training. Make a RES check. If successful you may gain a level in any
skill you possess.

7

A Life Event occurs.

8

You travel aboard starships. Take one level in Pilot, Astrogation or Engineer

9

You become involved with the embassy and visit many other nests. Gain an Ally and a Contact.

10

You spend considerable time outside the Hive Federation. Gain a level of Deception or Streetwise

11

You are involved in preservation work in the local wilderness. Gain a level of Animals, Recon or Survival.

12

Your nest is threatened and everyone receives militia training to help defend it. Gain a level of Gun Combat or
Heavy Weapons.

265

