MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

You are seriously injured, equivalent to a roll of 2 on the Hiver Injury table.

2

Repeated failures have disheartened you. Make a RES check. If you fail, you conclude that you are not fit to
be a Manipulator. Lose a number of points from RES equal to the negative Effect. If you succeed, you realise
someone is working against you. Gain an Enemy but you do not have to leave the career.

3

A series of disasters befalls you and your reputation as a manipulator is in tatters. You must leave the career but
are determined to prove you are in fact the best at what you do. Gain RES +1 but also D3 Rivals.

4

You needed help and had to beg another Manipulator to assist you. This did not sit well but at least the rival
demanded an extortionate price in money and deeds. As a result you feel a bit better than if they had simply
assisted you gratis. You now have a Rival to whom you owe an enormous favour. If you do not repay your
benefactor when the time comes you will gain a powerful Enemy.

5

You were ejected from your home nest for taking your manipulations too far on a constant basis. The inferior
nest-citizens were just too susceptible and that is not your fault.

6

Your nest suffered a disaster and broke up, with most citizens finding new nests quickly. There are rumours you
caused the problem – which may or may not be true. You are out on your own and have gained D3 Rivals who
resent what you may or may not have done.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You inveigle your way into taking part in a major project outside your normal field of endeavour. You may roll on
any Service Skills table for any career and gain the indicated skill.

4

You work towards advancement and of course you succeed! Gain DM+4 on your next advancement check.

5

You are determined to achieve Manipulator status and become a legend among your people. Gain DM+1 to all
future advancement checks. You may receive this bonus in future terms.

6

You decide you need to develop a particular skill. Make a RES check. If successful you may gain a level in any
skill you possess.

7

A Life Event occurs.

8

You travel aboard starships. Take one level in Pilot, Astrogation or Engineer.

9

You become involved with the embassy and visit many other nests. Gain an Ally and a Contact.

10

You spend considerable time outside the Hive Federation, practicing your manipulation skills on aliens with a
very different culture. Gain a level of Streetwise and a non-Hiver Contact.

11

You act as a facilitator for a major endeavour – a diplomatic mission, a trade treaty of something similar. Gain
RES +1 and an Ally.

12

Your home region suffers a disaster and naturally you are tasked with resolving it. Make a RES check. If
successful you may make an immediate additional advancement check with DM+4. If this results in higher
status than you already hold, you are advanced to this status. In addition, gain one level in any skill of your
choice and a Contact outside Hiver society.

267

