MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

You are seriously injured, equivalent to a roll of 2 on the Hiver Injury table.

2

Repeated failures have disheartened you. Make a RES check. If you fail, your confidence was shaken and you
passed up several opportunities. Lose a number of benefits equal to the negative Effect. If you succeed, you
suffer no significant consequences but gain an Enemy who is trying to discredit you for their own reasons.

3

Your carefully laid plans result in a major financial loss for the people who supposed to benefit. You do not know if
you were just plain wrong or if there are other manipulators working against you. Either way, you lose RES –1.

4

Everything was going well until a gigantic financial sinkhole swallowed you up. You are in debt for MCr2Dx1 and
the people you owe it to – or who say you owe it to them – are dangerous. It is possible a mysterious benefactor
straightens out the mess, in which case you do not have to leave the career but owe a favour to this benefactor.
If this is not repaid you will gain a powerful Enemy but if you do what they ask of you when the time comes you
will gain them as an Ally instead. If nobody helps you, you still owe the money to someone. Gain an Enemy who
is pursuing you but also 10% of the amount you owe as cash.

5

Whether you deserved it or not, word got out about some actions on your part that look bad. You cannot
manipulate anyone who knows about this, so have left your old life behind to find a new start.

6

Your nest suffered total financial collapse and its members found other nests more to their liking. You may or
may not be to blame but no local nest would take you so you have had to leave the region.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You are manipulated into taking part in a major project outside your normal field of endeavour. You may roll on
any Service Skills table for any career and gain the indicated skill.

4

Things generally go rather well whenever you are involved, and you are pleased with the results. More
importantly, you get the credit. Gain DM+4 on your next advancement check.

5

You make a big score. You can take the money or claim the credit but not both. If you take the money, you gain
Cr2Dx100000. If you claim the credit you gain DM+1 on all advancement checks in this career and a Contact
who is impressed with your work.

6

An opportunity arises to obtain specialist training. Make a RES check. If successful you may gain a level in any
skill you possess at level 0 or higher.

7

A Life Event occurs.

8

You travel aboard starships. Take one level in Pilot, Astrogation or Engineer.

9

You become involved with the embassy and visit many other nests. Gain an Ally and a Contact.

10

You spend considerable time outside the Hive Federation, making a living among aliens with a very different
culture. Gain a level of Streetwise and a non-Hiver Contact.

11

You facilitate a big transaction on the part of a major organisation such as a planetary administration. This
boosts your confidence and you gain RES +1 along with an Ally.

12

You help get your home nest out of a major financial problem. Gain one level of Tactics (economic) and a
Contact outside Hiver society.

269

