C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

H

I

R

T

Y

F

I

V

E

HIVERS AS TRAVELLERS
Hivers are very different from most other races but
their society does produce a great many Travellers.
Most are driven either by curiosity or a plan they are
working on but Hivers also travel for more mundane
reasons. Trade, diplomacy and intelligence-gathering
will take Hivers far beyond the Federation, whilst
within it individuals can be encountered going about
all manner of business.
A Hiver Traveller will typically kill its larvae even when
there is a wilderness for them to develop in. It would
not be acceptable to allow larvae to develop into Hivers
where there is no nest for them to join. The killing is
done in an efficient and detached manner; it is merely
a household chore like any other. For this reason Hivers
will sometimes forget that other species are upset by the
idea of murdering their offspring and may not be all that
discreet about it. Or they may do it in front of crewmates
in order to elicit a response the Hiver finds useful.
Hivers cannot readily convey emotion through their
Voder, although agitated movements might be
translated to emphasis by its programming. Hivers
do not feel or display emotions to such an extent as
humans and other creatures but they do have some
deep-rooted behaviours that are similar. One is an
aversion to physical violence. Hivers can fight but
they are rarely good at it and will tend to scuttle
away from danger even if they have decided they
must stand and fight. This urge to escape exhibits in
any threatening situation; a Hiver may be sent into
ignominious retreat as readily by a shouting match as
by a drawn gun or knife.
At longer ranges, Hivers are much better able to
cope. A Hiver equipped with a long-range rifle may
be quite effective and over the sort of distances
space combat occurs they are able to deal rationally
with the situation. The ability to carry out harmful
actions increases with psychological distance from the
physical reality of the act. Thus a Hiver may be quite
capable of poisoning someone so they die in agony or
manipulating a situation to result in someone being
harmed by others. They are, in human terms, physical
cowards rather than pacifists. Indeed, there are many

270

who consider that manipulating a person, culture or a
whole species so that its nature is changed is doing the
absolute worst form of violence – but Hivers have no
problem with doing so.
They are also insatiably curious, even about things
outside their normal sphere of interest. Curiosity wars
with fear of coming to harm, with the inevitable result
that Hivers like to have others take risks for them.
Indeed, a situation where someone is manoeuvred into
carrying out a dangerous experiment or engaging in
combat is interesting in many ways – the deed itself,
the process of getting the subject to carry it out and
their reactions to both the action and the manipulation
that incited it.
Hivers can be surprisingly confrontational, considering
their fear of coming to harm. Hivers feel that some
problems are best tackled directly, by laying out the
parameters of the situation and coming to a consensus.
This can mean they are sometimes rather too blunt
about issues non-Hivers might talk around. A Hiver
would see nothing wrong with openly raising the
question of whether to kill and eat the ship’s cat to
preserve rations or even just to vary the diet of the
crew. At other times they are unnecessarily devious,
engaging in an elaborate manipulation rather than
just making a request or suggestion. As always, the
approach chosen might be manipulative or done out
of curiosity – the Hiver knows it can obtain the salt by
asking but it may be far more interesting to manipulate
others into passing it – and then not to use it so as to
observe the reaction.
A Hiver abroad in the universe will be constantly
carrying out little social experiments on the people
around it. They do not understand questions about why
they feel they have the right to do this or to manipulate
others for reasons important or trivial. Manipulation
is something a Hiver can do, so it does. It is no less
instinctive or natural than eating or breathing. Would a
human who fell into water consider not swimming? It
is widely presumed that Hivers feel they are superior to
other races but it is more likely that they are competing
for survival and dominance like everyone else, just
using their own innate skill set.

