Everything a Hiver does is for a reason. Hivers do
not play or amuse themselves, they have no parental
instincts towards their equivalent of infants and are
interested only in educating – rather than amusing –
their yearlings. Thus if a Hiver plays a video game with
someone it is not for the fun of playing the game. The
Hiver may be observing the opponent’s behaviour or
engaging in some manipulation but it most certainly
is not playing for enjoyment of the game itself. Hivers
have no concept of this.
Hivers do not have religion, and have never displayed
any sort of psionic powers, but they are interested in
those of others. Their interest generally overwhelms
any respect the Hiver may have, unless its personal
safety is compromised. Thus a Hiver would probably
not wander into the middle of a state funeral and
cause chaos, because it can figure out this course of
action might be dangerous to it. However, it might get
someone else to do so, just to see how everyone reacts.
Sometimes this lack of respect for other people’s
social boundaries stems from cultural differences and
is entirely innocent but Hivers display an enormously
hypocritical attitude to social conformity. They like
others to follow the rules and limit behaviours but do
not feel bound to do the same. Thus a Hiver might

demand that others follow the rules or to manipulate
them into doing so but see nothing wrong with breaking
every rule in the book when it feels like it.
Playing a Hiver is thus quite a challenge. It will want
to be in control of the situation but indirectly. A Hiver
might assume a straight leadership role under some
circumstances but is more likely to push the other
Travellers in the direction it wants. It may agree to
stop manipulating people but it simply cannot; getting
others to act the way it wants is an instinct going back
to the proto-Hiver days on Guaran. It must also be
remembered that Hivers fear personal violence. Whilst
confrontation of problems is sometimes desirable, this
takes the form of an academic debate riddled with
clever tricks intended to get a result whether or not the
Hiver ‘wins’ the argument.
A Hiver may begin play as a Traveller with more of
everything than a typical Traveller. More money and
more benefits but also more Enemies, Rivals and
complications. This is a good thing – Manipulations
work better in a complex and unstable environment.
Indeed, this is perhaps the defining factor for a true
Hiver – they believe they can impose their will on a
chaotic universe. For some, it is actually true.

271

