T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

R

INTRODUCTION
Lying far from the Imperial core, the Deneb and
Spinward Marches sectors combine hazardous frontiers
with complex internal politics. It was here that the four
great Frontier Wars were fought and, from here, that
Admiral Plankwell launched his bid for the Imperial
throne. The region is at once a crossroads and a
backwater; a frontier and a hotbed of internal politics.
To rimward lies the Great Rift, one of the last unexplored
areas of Charted Space. The rift’s distinctive shape,
and the long haul around its coreward fringe, give this
region its nickname ‘behind the Claw’. The rift limits
communication with the rest of the Imperium, creating a
unique cultural region with external influences almost as
strong as those of the Imperial core.
The Imperial Navy is stretched thin here, defending
the borders at the expense of internal security. Some
systems are all but lawless; others pay only lip service to
Imperial membership and pursue their own goals. Some
systems have never been properly surveyed and may
yet hold mysteries or hidden dangers; others are ripe
for exploitation or conquest. Small wars are common;
smuggling, and even piracy, are rife.
As the subsector dukes of Deneb and Spinward Marches
jockey for power, and the merchant shipping lines vie
for control of the spaceways, they must contend with
threats both internal and external. To coreward lie the
chaotic Vargr Extents, source of endless corsair raids,
and the mysterious Zhodani Consulate with its psionic

nobility. To spinward are open frontiers with vast
possibilities for daring merchant captains and explorers.
From the ultra-tech of Vincennes to the undeveloped
wastelands of Fulacin, a wealth of opportunities lie
waiting behind the Claw. There are deals to be struck
in seedy freeports, new trade routes to be opened and
hidden resources found on remote worlds. Rebel groups
need weaponry; criminal organisations want their illegal
goods moved on the quiet. With so many cross-cutting
political and economic agendas, there is work aplenty
for mercenaries and Travellers who operate with initiative
and discretion.
Hundreds of worlds offer an infinite variety of
experiences. From unspoiled wilderness roamed
by gigantic megafauna, to the dangerous depths of
overcrowded cities; from star-baked craters of a vacuum
world to unexplored jungles and lofty mountains. Those
of more cultured tastes can experience the politicallycharged atmosphere of Trin, Mora and Deneb, where
a cocktail party or formal dinner can have sector-wide
consequences, or visit the homeworlds of the region’s
many minor races.
There is endless variety to be found on the worlds
behind the Claw. Danger and opportunity; the wondrous
and the mundane.
An infinity of adventure awaits…

