C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

O

N

E

CHARTED SPACE
Space that has been explored by humans is referred to
as Charted Space. Within this region are many areas
densely populated and well-travelled by starships.
Others are backwaters or have never been more than
superficially mapped.

Outside the confines of a star system, some frame of
reference is needed to indicate relative positions. By
convention the following terms are used:

The most prevalent sentient species in Charted Space is
human, and the most powerful human state is the Third
Imperium, although there are many other powers,
great and small, along with independent worlds and
political groups.

Coreward refers to the direction towards the galactic core.
Rimward is the opposite direction to coreward, towards
the galactic rim.
Spinward means in the direction in which the galaxy
is rotating.
Trailing is the opposite of spinward; away from the
direction of galactic rotation.

There are few areas about which absolutely everything
is known and, even if an area had been properly
explored, the data may not be publicly available or the
public version may be entirely incorrect. There is still
plenty to be discovered, even in the settled regions
of Charted Space, and beyond the core areas many
mysteries await discovery.

Some Imperial citizens also use the term coreward to
mean towards the Imperial heartworlds, literally the
‘Imperial Core’. This usage is generally obvious from
context. For example, it should be fairly obvious that a
magazine called Coreward Gazette deals with matters
in the Imperial central region and not the centre of the
galaxy tens of thousands of light-years away.

DIRECTIONS IN SPACE

Distances

Directions like north or southwest are meaningless in
space. Within a star system, most objects move in orbit
about the star or a planet and movement can be defined
with reference to a suitable point. Most bodies in a star
system orbit in the same general plane, known as the
ecliptic. One direction at 90 degrees to the ecliptic is
defined by convention as ‘system north’ or ‘up’ and the
other as ‘system south’ or ‘down’.

Concepts like metres and kilometres are inadequate
for the vast distances in space. Over relatively short
distances, such as in orbital space, thousands
or millions of kilometres are used as a measure.
Larger distances in-system are measured using the
Astronomical Unit, or AU. This is based on the
distance of Earth’s orbit from the Sun and is about
160,000,000 km.

Most movement within a system is defined in terms of
going towards, or away from, a given body, usually the
main world of the system or the star itself. The terms
‘in-system’ (towards the inner planets of the system
and the star) or ‘out-system’ (away from the star)
are also used. These are rather general terms but as
navigation in three dimensions, whether along an orbital
path or a straight line, is a complex business they serve
for casual conversation. Of course, starship astrogators
produce rather more detailed course plots using highly
advanced mathematics…

The light-second is also used, defined as the distance
light travels within a vacuum in one second. This is
299,792,458 km, usually rounded to 300,000,000 km.
One AU is 499 light-seconds.
Over greater distances, still larger measures are needed.
The light-year (the distance light travels in one standard
Earth year) is sometimes used, equating to 63,241 AU.
More commonly, the parsec (3.26 light-years) is used as
this is the maximum distance that can be covered by a
jump-1 capable starship.
Most Traveller starmaps use a scale of 1 parsec to 1 hex.

