Astrographic Features

Charted Space has a few anomalies and interesting
features. Stars tend to occur in groups (called clusters)
or long chains (known as mains). Trade and commerce
tends to move along the mains as they allow vessels to
navigate between systems with ease. Crossing to another
main requires a ship with longer range or some means to
refuel in deep space.
Many clusters and segments of a main have their own
cultural, astrographic or economic identity. These are
sometimes named, such as the Bowman Arm in the
Spinward Marches, a segment of the Spinward Main
centering on the Bowman system.
The empty space between clusters or mains is
sometimes referred to as a rift. Small rifts are usually
no more than 1-4 parsecs wide and hardly worthy of
the name. Even the Great and Lesser Rifts of Charted
Space are nothing compared to vast gulfs that can lie
between the spiral arms of the galaxy. However, they are
a significant navigational obstacle to vessels using jump
drive technology.
A few odd features have been reported, though some
may be nothing more than wild spacers’ tales. A rosette
system of five equidistant worlds orbiting a common
star, that could not have occurred naturally, or the
rumoured ringworld located in the Vargr Extents. There
are also a number of broken planets and shattered
moons that may indicate a war of titanic proportions in
the distant past.

MAINWORLDS

Most star systems are identified by their mainworld, the
most important planet, moon or planetoid belt in the
system. This is for the simple reason that people visit
worlds, not stars. The mainworld of a system is usually
the most habitable, but not always. It may be a moon
of a gas giant or a planetoid belt, but most commonly it
will be a planet of some kind.
The nature of the jump drive is such that unless there
is a good (usually economic) reason to visit other worlds
of a system, vessels tend to ply between mainworlds in
different systems rather than less important worlds in
the same system. It takes as long to jump a few hundred
AU to an outsystem rockball as it does to travel to the
much more important mainworld of the star system a
parsec away.
For this reason, the remainder of a star system can be
quite underdeveloped, although there may be outposts,
mining stations and other installations, not all legal or
above-board, scattered among the various bodies and
planets of a system.

STARPORTS

AND SPACEPORTS

By convention, a world has only one starport but can
have many spaceports. The designation "starport" is
given to the world’s main port, where most commercial
and passenger traffic goes. Any other port is designated
a spaceport. This can cause problems on balkanised
worlds where several governments exist; most will claim
that their port is the main one.
Usually, but not always, the starport is the best port on
the planet and others will be inferior. Normally, there
will be a main port accompanied by a startown, which
is often the planetary capital. The startown is usually
geared to offworld visitors and doing business with other
star systems, so may have more relaxed attitudes and
laws than other regions of the planet. This is not always
the case, however.
The Imperium considers a starport (but not usually a
spaceport) as Imperial territory, so Imperial law, and
not local law, applies there. In practice, there is often a
compromise, with shared jurisdiction. Law Levels vary
but a typical well-regulated starport tends to restrict
visitors to sidearms – this may be more or less than
people are permitted to own or carry outside the port.
The startown is planetary territory, not part of the port,
and theoretically local law applies there. However, the
startown is often a buffer zone between world and port
and if there are radical differences in Law Level then
sometimes the startown has a special set of laws in
place within its limits.
The planetside part of a starport or spaceport is termed
the downport, although there may also be an orbital
component termed the highport. In some cases, this is
big enough to be a city in space and there may be no
need to descend to the planet at all if business can be
conducted in orbit.
An important system might have a large highport
serving a downport at the capital. Large ships dock at
the highport and use shuttles for passenger and cargo
transport; smaller vessels can land if they choose. From
the orbital highport, it is possible to go to the main
downport or spaceports in each of half a dozen cities,
plus a commercial port serving an industrial complex.
Meanwhile there may be a dedicated military port,
a small government port and a couple of spaceports
serving installations on other bodies in the system, such
as a mining colony on a moon of one of the gas giants.
A minor system, on the other hand, may have little more
than a shed and a marked landing area.

5

