THE TRAVELLERS’
Bases Behind the Claw

The most common bases in the Imperium are
detailed on page 227 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook, but several others can be found in the
Spinward Marches and Deneb, and are marked in
the subsector descriptions later in this book.
Depot (D): Used by the Imperium’s sector fleets, a
depot is a massive naval base, often consuming
an entire star system. It can support a sizeable
fraction of a sector fleet’s ships at once, offering
building, repairing, rearming and experimental
facilities. As well as servicing ships, depots also
have command and control facilities, academies,
and mothballed ships.
Corsair Base (C): Popularised by Vargr, corsair bases
do not have the full range of facilities of naval
bases but provide enough to refuel and maintain
corsair ships. A corsair base is often the main
staging point from which raids are conducted.
Military Base (M): These are planetary facilities
for the support, maintenance, repair and refit of
ground vehicles and troops.
Way Station (W): A large Imperial Interstellar
Scout Service installation dedicated to the x-boat
communication network and servicing scout ships.
Zhodani Base (Z): Zhodani bases are a combination
of naval bases and the equivalent of x-boat stations
(serviced by jump-4 couriers).

There are no reliable reports of a vessel surviving
a misjump that carried it more than 36 parsecs,
although there are the usual wild spacers’ tales. It
is assumed that those vessels that misjumped and
were not seen again were destroyed, and it is known
that some vessels have been destroyed by misjump
accidents as evidence found in the debris has shown.

AID SOCIETY

The Travellers’ Aid Society (TAS) maintains a chain
of hostels, which vary considerably in quality from
excellent hotels to drafty shacks, and provides
information to its members about local conditions.
While TAS was created with the needs (and money) of
well-off businesspersons and minor nobles in mind, it
has gradually come to cater to a more ordinary voyager.
Anyone can rent a room in most TAS facilities but the
Member’s Lounge and special facilities (which generally
include accurate and up to date local information on
what is really going on) are reserved for members.
Membership can be awarded for service or, as cynics
claim, for being someone TAS would like to have as
a member. It can also be bought for a straight MCr1,
although some candidates are blackballed after paying,
for various reasons.
TAS publishes JTAS – the Journal of the Travellers’
Aid Society. This is a well-respected news and current
events journal, with features on interesting people and
places across Charted Space. The ‘open’ version can
be bought by anyone and helps fund reporters and the
society itself. Members have access to a slightly more
comprehensive version with the JTAS archives, which
are very extensive and contain information on a wide
range of subjects.
TAS is not a secret society, nor is it a ‘universal
siblinghood of Travellers’. There is no guarantee that
an influential person staying in a TAS hostel will talk
to a down-at-heel adventurer just because they are
both TAS members. However, it provides a place where
interesting, and perhaps useful, people can be met if
a Traveller makes the right approach. Sometimes job
offers and information come through the TAS network
and are not seen by outsiders.
Overall, TAS is very useful to Travellers. Whether it is
worth spending a million Credits on is another
question entirely.

7

