To the average citizen of the Imperial core worlds,
the Spinward Marches is just a name, one of the
distant provinces perhaps, or one of those troublesome
backward border regions. Certainly, nothing good ever
seems to come out of the Marches. The Civil War was
launched from there; major conflicts with foreign states
are two-a-Credit… and, in any case, the Marches are on
the other side of the Great Rift, very far away and of no
real consequence.

sparse area in the Vilis and Lanth subsectors. Not only
is this a region of low stellar density, which restricts
easy navigation, but it is associated with a number of
curious phenomena; the incidence of misjumps and
ship disappearances in what is known as the Abyss Rift
is significantly higher than in other areas. The region of
sparse systems extends out to spinward from Vilis but,
as there is no Imperial territory in this direction, it is of
little consequence.

There is an element of truth in this. The Marches
are isolated not only by distance but by the barrier
of the Great Rift, which cannot be crossed without
considerable effort. As a result, the only way into, and
out of, the Marches is through the narrow Imperial-held
strip between the Great Rift and Vargr Extents, aptly
named the Corridor sector.

The other region of low stellar density lies to spinwardcoreward of Collace, in District 268, and is known
as the Collace Rift. Arms of the Spinward Main run
around the edges of this rift, which contains the barelysurveyed world designated 875-496 and the interdicted
Droyne worlds of Andor and Candory.

On top of that, the Spinward Marches is the Imperial
border with the Zhodani Consulate and several smaller
human, Vargr and other states. As a result, it was
bound to have an interesting history. Most events in the
Marches affect only the local area but, occasionally,
something spills out, usually something bad – that is
just how the universe works.
To a great extent, astrography dictates many of the
characteristics of the sector. The single most important
feature is the Spinward Main, which wends its way
right across the sector, branching at several points. The
Spinward Main is often considered to begin at Mora; in
fact the chain of stars runs onward into the Star Lane
subsector of Deneb for a couple of parsecs.
From Mora, an arm of the Main runs coreward into
Rhylanor but the Main proper is far longer. One of the
major arms run coreward into Aramis and Regina, then
across spinward all the way to Querion. The central arm
runs through the Sword Worlds to Darrian, while the
rimward arm splits into three major branches. One leads
to Glisten and two run into the Five Sisters.
The most important implication of this huge
astrographical feature is that it is possible to reach any
subsector of the Marches with a jump-1 ship, albeit
slowly. A jump-2 ship can reach almost any world in
the sector by following the Main then jumping across
onto a smaller main. Only a handful of worlds cannot be
reached in this way.
There are a few areas of very sparse systems in the
Marches, which tend to channel and restrict shipping.
One is in Aramis but lies close to the border so has little
effect on internal shipping. Rather more important is the

10

Politically, there are few barriers to navigation in most
of the sector. The Sword Worlds Confederation is not
friendly to the Imperium, which necessitates a detour
around Sword Worlder space for most ships headed
to the Darrian Confederation. Difficulty of access also
means that Imperial holdings in the Five Sisters are
more or less cut off from the rest of the Imperium.
Obviously, crossing the border into the Zhodani
Consulate presents significant problems, as Imperial
ships are not always welcomed there, and the same
applies to the Sword Worlds Confederation. Ships
coming into the Imperium from these states are
sometimes considered suspect by the Imperial Navy and
the worlds they visit.
However, the Imperial border is not a hard barrier. It
is simple enough to leave Imperial space, visit worlds
outside the Imperium, and later return, and no special
permissions are needed. While the Imperium has laws
that govern trade between member worlds, these do
not apply to systems outside the Imperium and those
systems have their own regulations. Thus, although
crossing the border is easy, the way ships are treated
by local authorities when they make planetfall can be a
disincentive to cross-border trading.
Above all, it is important to note that each world,
whether part of the Imperium or not, is different and
self-governing. The Imperium is a framework that
establishes common concepts and laws, and otherwise
leaves worlds to their own devices, so there are large
cultural differences between many of the worlds of
the Imperium. Beyond its borders this is even more
pronounced, although only the most isolated worlds are
not affected in some way by the values and ideas that
exist elsewhere in the universe.

