HISTORICAL

PERSPECTIVE

To understand why the sector is the way it is, it is
necessary to look back over its long and somewhat
troubled history.
It seems that the Ancients were active in the Spinward
Marches, as is evidenced by the transplanted Terran
species; various animals and plants native to Terra and
other distant worlds were found in the region when
human exploration began. There were also humans living
in the area; the Daryen people, for one, and the rather
more powerful Zhodani.
There are also some interesting anomalies. Several
Ancients sites and many artefacts have been located,
and the Ancients are thought to have been somehow
responsible for Shionthy being an asteroid belt;
there is strong evidence that it was a planet until, in
cosmological terms, quite recently.
However, little is known about ancient times in the
Marches. Archaeologists uncover new data from timeto-time but the work is intermittent and piecemeal.
Evidence has been found of non-human civilisations
dating from the distant past but which are not thought
to be associated with the Ancients. Perhaps time and
research will make this clearer.
In the meantime, it is known that the Ancients were
here at some point and they did a number of things that
suggest a lengthy stay. They are gone now. Beyond that,
everything is a matter for conjecture.
Information about the Zhodani is hard to come by and
not always reliable, but it seems they arrived on their
homeworld (Zhdant) about 300,000 years ago. They
were brought from Terra by the Ancients, who settled
them and undertook a range of incomprehensible acts
including remodelling mountains and cutting, then
refilling, ocean trenches. They also reportedly built a city
on the moon of Zhdant.
Soon afterwards, perhaps as little as a few hundred
years, Zhdant came under severe orbital bombardment.
It is thought that the Ancient cities and other sites
were destroyed using several hundred megatons of
nuclear explosives, as well as deadfall ordnance (objects
dropped from orbit as kinetic weapons) and other
unidentified weapons. Modern Zhodani are descended
from a few tens of thousands of survivors, who were cast
back to barbarism. There are no records of survivors
among the Ancients.

12

The Zhodani Consulate

Over the next tens of thousands of years, the Zhodani
struggled to survive an ice age triggered by the
bombardment and, as conditions improved, began to
spread out across the planet. By approximately -24000
(by the modern Imperial calendar), the Zhodani had
evolved into their modern form and became increasingly
reliant on agriculture rather than nomadic hunting.
Imperial scientists believe that there was once a large
population of Chirpers on Zhdant. They might have been
put there by the Ancients or could have been native. In
either case, human contact resulted in the discovery that
these Chirpers had psionic abilities. Zhodani humans may
or may not have gained their initial insight into psionics
from the Chirper population; what is known is that from
the time humans and Chirpers encountered one another,
Zhodani humans began to display psionic abilities.
Zhodani sources are vague about the Chirpers; they all
died out during recorded history. There is also evidence
that around -8000, the Zhodani suffered massive
depopulation, probably due to a plague. There may be a
connection between these events.
Civilisation was rebuilt slowly and not without difficulty.
However, by -6731 a technological society existed on
Zhdant. This was the date of the first Psionic Games,
the beginning of modern Zhodani society. The Psionic
Games established a path for a psionically talented
commoner to join the nobility and helped find the
most powerful psionic individuals in each generation.
The period between games (three local years) is still a
fundamental concept in Zhodani society.
The Zhodani are thought to have begun (some sources say
regained, which has interesting implications) space travel
around -6400. Within 400 years, they were launching
sublight exploration missions to neighbouring systems.
The Zhodani were willing to undertake very long-term
operations; they created colonies in several systems and
sent out exploration ships on missions lasting decades.
The Zhodani Consulate was founded in -5823 and
comprised worlds as far as four parsecs from Zhdant.
In -5415 the Zhodani developed jump drive technology
and rapidly expanded their territory, encountering
sentient species along the way. They met the Vargr
around -2800 and the Vilani in about -2000. However,
Zhodani exploration was unusual in one very significant
way; they were fascinated by the galactic core.
Since -4000, the Zhodani have launched seven major,
and many more minor, Core Expeditions. These have
gradually pushed towards the galactic core, establishing

