a chain of refuelling and repair bases, and establishing
relations with species met along the way.

electromagnetic pulse (EMP), which radiated out from
the star at lightspeed.

The expeditions are limited to a region of about 30
parsecs wide, with occasional offshoots, and extend over
8,000 parsecs. Imperial scientists do not know
the purpose of these missions but suggest, given the
time and expense involved, they must be considered
very important.

The pulse did no physical damage but destroyed
electronics. At a stroke, factories, hospitals, businesses
and starships lost their electronics systems. Vehicles
crashed, automated systems went out of control and
communications disappeared. The pulse was followed
by a wavefront of stellar gas moving more slowly and,
three weeks after the EMP, Darrian was devastated by
fire from space, which killed over 80% of the population
and effectively destroyed civilisation on the planet.

The Zhodani Consulate expanded rapidly from -4000 to
-1000, at which point it halted. Unlike the Imperium,
there is no ‘border creep’; the Consulate has been stable
for two thousand years. According to the Zhodani, it
has reached the largest size that can be effectively
governed and further expansion is both unnecessary and
counterproductive.
Although it holds a few worlds in the Spinward Marches,
the Zhodani Consulate did not push into the sector and
thus had a stable border when later arrivals appeared on
the scene.

The Rise and Fall of the Darrians

Meanwhile, another transplanted group of humans
was becoming active in the region. Like the Zhodani,
the Darrians were settled on a habitable world by the
Ancients, for reasons unknown, and then abandoned
when the Ancients departed. Darrian was a very
habitable world and there was less impetus to develop
technology than elsewhere. The Darrians developed
slowly and peacefully.
Many centuries later, in -1520, while the Rule of Man
was declining into the Long Night, a fleet of ships
belonging to a Terran corporation arrived at Darrian,
seeking a new home. They befriended the Darrians rather
than competing with them, and by -1400 a synthesis
of the two cultures emerged. This had the best features
of both groups; the energy and inquisitiveness of the
Terrans, fused with the intellectual nature of the Darrians
to create a technologically advanced yet ethical society.
They were capable of interbreeding and within 400
years there was only one Darrian race and culture.
Moreover, it possessed TL16 technology – higher than
the Imperium itself. However, this was the Darrians’
undoing. They began to experiment on Tanis, Darrian’s
sun, in -1000 and in -924 the star destabilised.
It is thought that the event known as Mahgiz (Chaos, in
the Darrian language), was caused by an experimental
probe sent into the star, causing a series of massive
solar flares to erupt. These were accompanied by a huge

Although the gas dissipated in the Darrian system, the
EMP struck other systems as it radiated outwards. With
some warning, it was possible to preserve electronic
systems from the worst effect but the heart had
been torn out of the Darrian civilisation. Without the
technology and industry of the homeworld, there was no
way to replace or maintain technological items, such as
the starships possessed by the Darrian colonies.
In -905, the Darrians began taking measures to ensure
long-term survival. Starships were placed in storage
and each colony looked inward, preparing to survive the
difficult times ahead. By -860, the Darrians had ceased
all space travel.
Over the next six centuries the world of Mire gradually
climbed back up to TL10 and began constructing
starships. Its cache of surviving vessels were refurbished
and the Darrians returned to the stars. In -275 they
began exploring nearby space. What they found was both
surprising and ominous.

Newcomers in the Marches

Settlers set out from Terra and other worlds throughout
the Interstellar Wars and Rule of Man. Some used
cryogenic suspension, others attempted to use
generation ships. Most had jump-capable vessels. The
fate of many will never be known and there are almost
certainly still a number of sublight vessels filled with
now-dead frozen colonists headed into the unknown.
However, the fate of some missions was less grim. One
such reached the world now named Gram, in the Sword
Worlds subsector, and founded a colony in -399. This
group comprised mainly of North Europeans from Terra
and, possibly due to difficult times early on, developed
a rather unique culture based on an idealised version
of Icelandic and Scandinavian values. As the colony
grew, surrounding worlds were colonised and named
for swords in Terran mythology. A government of sorts,
based on the world of Sacnoth and known as the
Sacnoth Dominate, eventually emerged.

13

