In -164 the Sword Worlders, as they were now known,
encountered the re-emerging Darrians, to mutual surprise.
The two cultures were very different; the Darrians
were egalitarian and intellectual, the Sword Worlders
chauvinistic, obsessed with personal honour and, above
all, far too ‘manly’ for their own good. Cultural and
occasionally military conflict flared between the Darrians
and Sword Worlders, which has never really ceased.
However, the Sword Worlders spent most of their time
bickering among themselves, and by -102 the Sacnoth
Dominate had broken into rebellion. The subsequent
period of civil war caused all interstellar government
among the Sword Worlds to collapse by -80. Each of the
Sword Worlds went its own way, forming local alliances
or honouring old debts of honour for past assistance but
never forming a single government. There were many
attempts, some violent, but none achieved success.
Another influence on the region, albeit a minor one,
was exerted by the Aslan. The Aslan home region lies
across the Great Rift and, although they have possessed
jump drive technology for 2,000 years, the Aslan have
only recently arrived in the Marches. In 585, several
groups of Aslan ihatei offered to fight for the Darrian
Confederation in return for grants of land. Since that
time, the Darrian Confederation has had a fair sized
Aslan population and recruited many thousands of Aslan
troops into its armed forces.

THE IMPERIUM IN

THE MARCHES

The Third Imperium was founded in Year 0 and
expanded quickly at first. After the end of the
Pacification Campaigns, this changed and the Imperium
as an entity was no longer concerned with expansion.
It was entirely willing to accept new members, and for
corporations and other bodies to launch expeditions
beyond its borders, but the initial deliberate expansion
had been replaced by a gradual ‘border creep’.
Expansion to coreward was curtailed by the Vargr
Extents, a large area filled with small states and
independent worlds with mostly Vargr populations. Major
states were encountered in most other directions, or rifts
created natural barriers. However, there was a narrow
corridor between the coreward end of the Great Rift
and the Vargr extents, and through this bottleneck the
Imperium gradually expanded into the region beyond.
This area is often referred to as lying behind the claw, as
the shape of the Great Rift resembles a lobster claw.
When they began exploring, early Imperial scouts found
an underpopulated region that eventually led to the
Sword Worlds and Darrian Confederations. These two
small but developed powers lay close together, islands
in a sea of unclaimed worlds. Before meeting them,
however, the Imperial scouts ran into the Zhodani in
Year 50. Initial contact was tentative and it was some
time before the scale of the Consulate was appreciated.
After establishing a forward base at Deneb, the scouts
pushed on to open up the region and behind them
came traders and colonists. In the region around Deneb
itself, to trailing of the Marches, expansion was rapid
and many colonies received considerable investment,
resulting in the creation of several economically
important worlds. Movement into the Marches was
slower and made in piecemeal fashion.
One of the biggest developments for the Marches was
the establishment of a trading settlement at Mora. Set
up by Ling Standard Products in Year 60, this was
initially the far end of a long trade route through Corridor
and Deneb. Over the years, it gradually developed into
a forward base for trade with the new colonies of the
Marches and the states encountered there.
Contact with the Sword Worlds was in 73, but it was not
until 148 that the Darrians met the Imperials. During
this time, the Sword Worlds managed to create a new
unified government, the Triple Dominion (shared by
Anduril, Colada and Dyrnwyn), which lasted from 104
to 217. It may be that the Sword Worlders deliberately

14

