discouraged the Imperials from moving through their
territory and thus meeting their Darrian rivals. Certainly,
the number of scouting missions in that direction
dropped rapidly.
By 200, Imperial interest in new territory, especially
in distant regions that were hard to reach, had waned.
Expansion in the Marches proceeded in a disjointed
manner, fuelled by economics and on a small scale. The
presence of the Spinward Main enabled easy access to
large parts of the sector but the remainder was largely
ignored and there was little interest in pushing beyond,
even to spinward or rimward where there were open
borders. To coreward, the Zhodani Consulate blocked
further expansion.
In 250, the Imperium had spread into those parts of the
sector easily reachable via the Spinward Main, bypassing
less accessible regions. Regina, settled as early as 75,
became a major trade centre, acting as a hub for half a
dozen neighbouring worlds. By 250, this number had
grown to 17, although some were very minor colonies.
Expansion slowed further as easily-reached worlds were
taken. Colonies grew into independent world-states in
their own right and the region developed a respectable
economy. However, backwaters remained exactly
that; few new colonies were founded in most parts
of the sector.

War

By 500, tensions with the Consulate were rising as
Imperial expansion, although slow, had resulted in
Imperial and Zhodani colonies being intermingled
along the border. After a period of escalating tensions,
war broke out in 589. The conflict took the form of
skirmishing along the border and deep raids into the
sector against the main Imperial worlds. The Imperial
Navy was caught at less than full readiness and the
Zhodani formed the first Outworld Coalition with Vargr
states in the Gvurrdon sector.
Eventually, the Imperials were able to force a stalemate
and the subsequent armistice, enacted in 604, ended
what is now known as the First Frontier War. The
Imperium lost territory but was compensated with
ownership of large unclaimed areas of the sector.
Had the Zhodani wanted these systems, they had had
centuries to take them unopposed, so this was an easy
concession for them to make.
The Imperial commander in the Marches, Grand Admiral
Olav hault-Plankwell, was deeply disgusted at the lack
of support he had received during the war. Desperately
needed reinforcements were not released from other
sector fleets despite Plankwell’s entreaties. When they

finally arrived, the reinforcements were enough to
force a stalemate, after which Plankwell used them for
another purpose.
With a fleet at his back, Plankwell advanced on Capital,
assassinated Empress Jacqueline and took the Iridium
Throne for himself. This began the Civil War, during
which a series of emperors ruled for brief periods. These
Emperors of the Flag or Barracks Emperors were almost
all naval commanders who defeated the last claimant
only to fall in battle themselves.
While the Civil War was raging, the Outworld Coalition
reformed and struck again, in 615. The Second Frontier
War, which lasted until 620, was characterised by a
brilliant, if rather desperate, holding action orchestrated
by Grand Admiral Arbellatra Alkhalikoi, coupled with
raids by Imperial cruiser forces into enemy territory.
Benefiting from a crash-building programme to replace
losses incurred in the Frontier and Civil wars, Arbellatra
fought the Outworld Coalition to a bloody standstill.
She unilaterally negotiated an armistice that ceded
more Imperial territory to the Zhodani and, as Plankwell
before her, advanced on Capital.
The Second Frontier War ended in 620 and, in 622,
Grand Admiral Arbellatra reached Capital and defeated
the fleet of Emperor Gustus. Rather than simply take the
crown, she appointed herself regent, holding the throne
in trust until the Imperial Moot could settle the matter
of succession. Arbellatra was made Regent in 622 and
crowned Emperor by the Moot in 629, ending the Civil
War and beginning the modern dynasty.
These events stripped the Marches of its fleet but there
was no resumption of hostilities with the Zhodani for
many years. Indeed, it was not until 979 that conflict
broke out once again. There had been incidents, and
even a few skirmishes, in the intervening time and
tensions had been rising for some years.
Despite this, the Imperial response was disjointed and,
overall, inadequate. The war mainly took the form of
commerce raiding by cruisers while the battle fleets
of both sides faced off but did little. The Navy and
Emperor himself were censured for their lack of activity
and, eventually, in 986 a peace agreement was reached.
The terms were unfavourable to the Imperium and this,
coupled with general disaffection over the way the
war was prosecuted, resulted in the abdication of
Emperor Styryx.
The settlement eliminated problematical border regions
and allowed a good defensive frontier to be set-up in
accordance with the ‘thin hard crust’ strategy then in

15

