STATES AND PEOPLES

OF THE MARCHES

The majority of worlds and people in the Marches
are part of the Imperium and are dealt with here.
Note however that the Imperium is not a monolithic
organisation; it has many power blocs and interest
groups, some are aligned with external factions. Others
are pursuing their own ends, which may not coincide
with the best interests of the Imperium as a whole.

The Darrian Confederation

The Darrian Confederation is an ally of the Imperium
and welcomes Imperial ships subject to customs
checks and traffic controls. The Darrian alliance dates
from 595 and was a response to a Sword Worlder
invasion of the Entropic Worlds, then a territory of the
Darrian Confederation.

The Aslan

There are no Aslan worlds in the Marches but there
are Aslan populations on several. Some are integrated
into the local population (such as in the Darrian
Confederation) while others remain aloof in their own
settlements. Some are present legally and with the
blessings of the world government; some are squatters
who have simply grabbed land, a common practice
among Aslan ihatei, or ‘second sons’. Aslan males value
land ownership very highly but only the primary heir
inherits. Some males are happy to serve their clan in a
subordinate role. The ihatei are the others; those who
have set out to make their own fortune.
Ihatei settlements sometimes trade in goods or services,
with several worlds having units of Aslan mercenaries as
part of their planetary armed forces. Others are simply
armed camps whose inhabitants just want to be left
alone and are prepared to repel any attempt to interfere
with their plans.

The Darrians control a small area of space, containing
17 worlds. This has changed over time, largely
due to Sword Worlder invasions, but otherwise the
Confederation is very stable. However, some
Imperial citizens view the Darrians with a certain
amount of suspicion.

Aslan society is very male-dominated, with females
taking supporting roles as managers, technicians and
scientists while the males are pilots, soldiers and
leaders. This can make them difficult to deal with but,
in many ways, Aslan are easier to get along with than
Sword Worlders.

The reason for this is the Darrians’ possession of the
Star Trigger, a doomsday weapon based on the probe
that caused their own near-extinction in the Maghiz.
A version of the Star Trigger was reportedly deployed
around 400 and is carried aboard vessels of the Special
Arm, a Darrian force dedicated to protecting the Star
Trigger and using it if the need arises.

Aslan have a strict culture of duty and honour, and can
be insulted very easily by those that do not understand
their ways. Some Aslan are more understanding about
the cultural ignorance of outsiders but the basics of
Aslan etiquette (enough not to get into serious trouble)
can be quickly picked up, enabling interaction with
Aslan without being challenged to a duel.
Aslan trade ships and mercenary units are common in
the Marches, with ihatei settlements restricted
mainly to the spinward-rimward corner of the sector.
Individuals and small groups have settled on many
worlds and are unlikely to attract comment from most
Imperial governments.

The Special Arm has at least one secret base; it is not
known how many ships they have, nor how many Star
Triggers are operational. As far as is known, the weapon
has not been tested in the field; a successful test would
be noticed, so the assumption is that one has not been
performed. The Darrians, however, maintain they have a
working Star Trigger available if needed.
Being a small state, the Darrian Confederation maintains
a modest but capable navy crewed by Darrian and Aslan
personnel but a handful of TL16 vessels exist, relics left
over from the pre-Maghiz period that cannot be replaced
or even properly maintained, so they are used sparingly.

17

