Darrian ships conduct exchange training programmes
with Imperial vessels and joint operations are not
unknown. For the most part, the Confederation patrols
and polices its own space and the Imperium does
likewise. Trade ships, on the other hand, come and go
as they please. However, the need to go through the
unwelcoming Sword Worlds or around through neutral
space limits volume of trade somewhat.

There are two Droyne-owned worlds in the Marches;
Candory and Andor. Both lie close together in the Five
Sisters, where only jump-3 ships can reach them, and
both are interdicted by strong Imperial Navy squadrons
for reasons that are classified. Most believe the
interdiction is related to Droyne use of psionics, which is
disapproved of by the Imperium. Authorities decline to
comment when asked.

The Darrians are not at war with the Sword Worlds but
a state of mutual mistrust and dislike exists, seasoned
with ongoing resentment over the Entropic Worlds and
other issues, although neither side wants open war.

Droyne ships come and go from these two worlds and
are sometimes sighted in ports across the Marches and
beyond. There is also some civilian access, mainly to
trade ships with special permits in place. However the
Droyne themselves, like those living in small enclaves on
various worlds in the Marches, do not seem to be very
interested in outside contact.

The Confederation is not expansionistic. There are many
unclaimed worlds nearby but the Darrians have never
showed much interest in acquiring new territories. Its
people are more interested in scientific research and
finding ways to improve their peaceful lives.
Darrian itself receives a fair numbers of tourists who go
to see the high-tech wonders left behind by the Maghiz.
However, the capital of the Confederation is at Mire, the
first world to regain spaceflight and is today the centre
of both government and the economy.

It is possible to visit the same Droyne oytrip
(community) on several occasions and receive a
different reception each time. The Droyne do not explain
themselves to outsiders and are something of a mystery,
even to the experts who study them. To the average
Traveller, they are incomprehensible.

The Federation of Arden

The Federation of Arden does not, technically, exist.
Arden is one of several independent worlds lying
between the Imperial/Zhodani border that have been
influenced by both powers over the centuries. In recent
years, Arden has proposed a local defence association
among nearby worlds with a view to creating a formal
alliance neutral to both Zhodani and Imperial interests.
Although this idea has not been met with great
enthusiasm, a number of political pressure groups,
businesses and minor shipping lines have recently
begun making a lot of noise about a Federation of
Arden. Exactly what is meant by this term depends
on who is using it. It is often used to describe a loose
alliance of businesses and groups attached to the
political coat-tails of Arden.

The Droyne

Droyne can be encountered all over the Marches,
although not commonly. There are a few communities
on various worlds, mostly in isolated areas, and several
ships that move around according to whatever agenda
they may have.

18

FA

FA

