There are those who predict that some kind of trade or
even military alliance may emerge in time. This would
require other governments to sign up, which does not
seem imminently likely. It is probable that the whole
thing is just talk but the Federation of Arden has now
passed into common use in the surrounding region. Time
will tell what form the Federation eventually takes.

The Sword Worlds

One of the big questions in the Marches is this: which is
correct? The Sword Worlds is, or the Sword Worlds are?
The Sword Worlders themselves seem unable to decide,
which implies the latter is true.
The Sword Worlds Confederation is a very loose alliance
whose members spend much of their time arguing or
jostling for position. Individual governments tend to
pursue their own agendas, even when a cooperative
effort being made. Joint ventures are usually short-lived,
although a charismatic individual can sometimes hold
things together where a paper agreement would simply
fall apart.

The Sword Worlds Confederation is politically unfriendly
to the Imperium and Darrian Confederation; this
does not mean actively hostile or stupid. The Sword
Worlders do not want a war with the Imperium, in which
their vessels would be overmatched in both numbers
and technology, and do not deliberately provoke the
Imperials. They will not, however, allow themselves to be
pushed around.
Passing through Sword Worlder space thus tends to be
unpleasant and difficult rather than dangerous for most
minor ship operators such as free traders, and expensive
for the bigger lines. Those that have won the respect of
the Sword Worlders, on the other hand, are treated as
old friends and find a warm welcome among their Sword
Worlder brothers-in-all-but-blood.
It is not possible to describe an over-arching Sword
Worlds Confederation plan for the future, other than
to say that the Sword Worlds want to be left alone
to captain their own fate. Exactly what each world is
planning at any given time varies greatly.

As a result, unless there is a severe external threat or
major opportunity, Sword Worlder activity tends to be
disjointed. When the Confederation acts as a whole,
it can do so with a surprising degree of unity in the
short term. Naval and military assets, which normally
belong to the individual worlds, are pooled under central
command and, once a chain of command is established
(which can be a difficult process), the combined fleet
can be expected to follow orders whatever local agendas
may be in place.
One reason for this is that, although the Sword Worlds
Confederation resembles a dysfunctional family with
feuds and jealousies, it is still a family. Almost any
rivalry or dispute can be set aside while a threat to the
Confederation is dealt with.
However, in peacetime, this means that vessels
ostensibly belonging to the Sword Worlds Confederation
Navy must be thought of as serving their own homeworld
first and foremost. To an outsider, a patrol vessel out
of Gram might look just like one out of Narsil but their
captains have very different priorities.
Imperials find the Sword Worlders difficult to deal with
(and vice versa) due to cultural differences. Sword
Worlders are chauvinistic (some would instead say
extremely protective) towards women and find it hard
to accept Imperial females in positions of responsibility
or power. They come over as haughty and arrogant, and
look down on those who do not meet their standards.

19

