The Sword Worlds owns the four so-called Metal Worlds
(Iron, Bronze, Mithril and Steel) but has not done much
with them. They are designated as reserve worlds in
much the same way the Imperium earmarks uninhabited
worlds for future development when the means are
available or need arises. As yet, there has been little
activity and an expression of interest by the Imperial
Colonial Office in developing one or more of the worlds
has not been rebuffed by the Sword Worlders.

The Vargr

Vargr are the second most common species in the
Imperium, especially at the coreward end of Imperial
space. Most worlds in the Marches have a mixed human/
Vargr population, although humans are prevalent.
On a few worlds, the minority Vargr are second-class
citizens or live in separate communities but, for the
most part, humans and Vargr live in the same streets
and apartment blocks, work alongside and are entirely
familiar with one another.

Vargr trade boats from the Extents can be encountered
all over the Marches, especially in the coreward-trailing
corner of the sector. Unfortunately, so can corsairs.
Raiding is considered a more honourable profession
by Vargr than humans and some states of the Extents
actively encourage it, though most Imperial Vargr are
less accepting of raiding and piracy.

The Zhodani Consulate

The Zhodani Consulate is the largest non-Imperial power
with an interest in the Marches. Its holdings are small,
confined to a couple of subsectors along the spinwardcoreward edge of the sector, but the influence of the
Consulate reaches much further into the sector than this.

Imperial Vargr are just that; Imperial citizens like
anyone else, and seen as a-person-from-Regina, for
example, rather than an alien. They tend to display
Imperial cultural influences or follow the culture of their
homeworld, just like anyone else.
Non-Imperial Vargr, from the Extents, come from
different cultures, one of many that exist in the region.
They have different habits and values to Imperial Vargr,
depending on their origins. There are no large Vargr
states in the Marches and no monolithic power structure
in the Extents. Local politics are vigorous at times and
governments can change on a short time frame, making
cross-border politics somewhat interesting.
Vargr of all origins show their pack-animal roots
in a tendency to gravitate to individuals or ideas
with charisma. Charisma is hard to define in this
context; each individual Vargr has his own idea of
what constitutes a worthy cause or leader. Status and
recognition tend to be more important to Vargr than in
humans, especially if it comes from someone the Vargr
admires or respects.
Contrary to stereotypes, Vargr are not flighty in their
allegiances. They may transfer loyalty from one leader
to another if he has sufficient charisma, however this
is not done lightly. It is usually considered a natural
consequence of meeting a more charismatic leader,
rather than betrayal if a Vargr leaves his old allegiance.
However, this does not mean a Vargr naval officer
will switch sides at the drop of a hat. Charisma is a
factor but there are many others to be considered;
demonstrating loyalty to a leader is a charismatic act in
its own right.

20

Zhodani military ships are unlikely to be encountered
in Imperial territory except as escorts for consulate
officials or valuable cargoes. They are occasionally
active in neutral areas and routinely transit a narrow
corridor through Imperial space to the Sword Worlds for
‘diplomatic purposes’. Access is permitted by treaty for
a small tonnage of vessels each year with the Imperial
Navy shadowing the Zhodani vessels during transit.
Zhodani merchants and couriers are seen somewhat
more often, and range more widely, but as a rule they
tend to stay out of Imperial space. There is a persistent
theory that the first three Frontier Wars (the fourth
was an accident) were fought because the Zhodani
felt threatened by the Imperium, and that if there is
no perceived threat then there will be no more war or
interaction. The Zhodani do not seem interested in what
happens outside their own extensive borders.
There are those, of course, who take the opposite view.
They contrast the lack of Zhodani ships in Imperial
space with the way Imperial vessels routinely trade into
the Vargr Extents and neutral space beyond, as well as
into the Consulate itself, and suggest it is the ships they
do not see that are the problem. There are also claims
that the Consulate is sponsoring anti-Imperial sentiment
within the Marches.

