The Consulate is not inclined to comment on these
matters. It maintains a strong naval and military
presence along the border and is not receptive to
Imperial vessels crossing into the Consulate. Permits
are required and boardings are not uncommon. While
vessels are not harassed, they are not welcomed either.
Exactly how negative an image this creates depends
greatly on the outlook of the ship crew in question.
Those who dislike the Zhodani speak of this lack of
welcome as a deliberate attempt to discourage Imperials
from entering the Consulate. Those with a more neutral
viewpoint feel the Zhodani simply do not care one
way or the other and that Imperial ships with the right
paperwork are as welcome as any others.
It would be surprising if the Zhodani Consulate did not
have intelligence gathering apparatus within Imperial
space. The availability of psionic powers grants extra
capabilities but most likely the Consulate uses a
mundane system of agents, informants and couriers like
other states. Its own counter-intelligence system seems
to be very effective, when it works.

Some minor races have their homes in the Marches
and most do not have starship technology so tend to be
encountered only rarely away from home. Minor races
are full members of the Imperium if they are members
at all, as there is no discrimination based on species.
However, the homeworlds of most minor races are
relatively undeveloped, so their economic importance
is small. Minor race homeworlds are represented in the
Imperium by nobles like any other, unless interdicted for
their own protection or the safety of others.

THE IMPERIUM

The majority of worlds in the Spinward Marches
are members of the Third Imperium and Imperial
corporations, officials from various services such as
the Bureaucracy and members of the armed forces are
common. Navy patrols are also a common occurrence,
especially in systems on a major trade route.

The rest of the time, Imperial agents in Zhodani space
seem to be able to operate undiscovered. Asking why
this might be leads to the conclusion that perhaps the
Zhodani are content to leave most agents in place and
only remove those who are troublesome.
The Zhodani Consulate has a maximum TL14 and
enormous industrial power. The size of its fleets are
unknown but, based on previous conflicts, they are
likely to be huge. Certainly, large numbers of patrol
craft have been sighted along the border and these
seem to be very efficient.

Minor Races

Members of minor races can be encountered across the
Marches, serving aboard starships, working in ports or
settling into jobs far from their homeworld. Although
the vast majority of citizens are humans or Vargr, there
is nothing unusual about seeing an alien (or group of
aliens) going about their business.

Beyond the Imperial border, corporations are still
active, although less so, and the Navy makes sweeps
into neutral space. The Scout Service is also very
active outside the Imperium. Local corporations and
businesses, whether based in the Imperium or just
outside it, often operate across the border without
much regard to whether a world is part of the Imperium
or not. Local regulations vary considerably and matter
more than the allegiance of the world.
In this respect the border is a ‘soft’ one, in that although
worlds on the border conduct customs checks like any
other, they have no obligation to treat trans-border shipping
differently to that coming from within the Imperium. As
always, local conditions vary and some worlds choose to
impose taxes on cross-border goods that would not be
permitted under free-trade laws within the Imperium. This
is a local matter and of no interest to Imperial authorities,
so long as internal trade is not affected.

21

