Nobility

Among the other notable members of the nobility in
the Marches is Leonard Fratelli Bolden-Tukera, Marquis
of Aramis. Although ‘merely’ a marquis associated
with a single world, his association with the powerful
Tukera family gives him great power. The Tukera family
are the founders of Tukera Lines, one of the Imperial
megacorporations, and remain principal shareholders.

The Marches have the usual system of Imperial nobility
in place, with individual worlds represented by barons
or marquises and larger groupings administered by
an Imperial count answering to the subsector duke.
The position of Sector Duke, the most senior of the
subsector dukes, which grants additional powers and
responsibilities over the entire sector, is not officially
assigned in the Marches.

Although Tukera, like most megacorporations, has only
a limited interest in the Marches, this translates to a
large number of ships passing through the bigger ports
and a very large amount of money changing hands. Thus
far, Tukera’s interests are to not push far into the sector
but there are rumours of investment in starports, which
surely implies an expansion of the firm’s operations.

However, the importance of Mora as a trade centre
and the ‘Gateway to the Marches’ grants it, and the
associated subsector, unmatched importance and so
the role of Sector Duke is carried out semi-officially
by Duchess Delphine of Mora. This practice has been
in place for centuries by Delphine’s ancestors and
is commonly accepted as the way things should be.
Only those politically opposed to Delphine herself
even question her primacy. She makes a point of not
using the title of Sector Duke, although many of her
supporters unofficially apply it.

The Spinward Marches is defended by the Spinward
Marches Sector Fleet of the Imperial Navy under the
command of Sector Admiral Santanocheev, who is
based at Mora. Unusually, there is no depot system in
the Marches. Instead, the Sector Fleet’s major battle
squadrons are usually deployed far forward at bases in
the Regina, Vilis, Lanth and Lunion subsectors, with a
strategic reserve in Trin and Mora.

There is no Archduke, as there is no domain structure
for the Marches to be part of. If there were, it would be
the Domain of Deneb and probably administered by one
of the sector dukes from more developed regions closer
to the Imperial core, who would accordingly be granted
the title of Archduke.

Although the Marches remains something of an
undeveloped backwater, it is also a frontier region and
one that has historically been troubled by threats major
and minor. As a result, many nobles maintain larger
household forces (huscarles) than is common practice
elsewhere in the Imperium. These forces are still not, for
the most part, enormous and mostly consist of a patrol
vessel or two and/or a battalion-sized light infantry force.
Some nobles, notably Duke Norris of Regina, maintain
considerable forces. Duke Norris has a distinguished
background in the Imperial Navy and remains dedicated
to protecting the frontier from whatever threats emerge.
Some would call him paranoid but his personal forces
have more than once been the first-response formations
in a crisis and have a good record. Among them is a unit
also known as the 4518th Lift Infantry (Duke Norris’ Own
Huscarles), raised by the duke as part of his personal
forces but spends most of its time on loan to the
Imperial Army.
Other nobles also loan part of their personal forces to
the Imperial Army or ships to the Colonial Fleet, in the
same way that many world governments do, although
this practice is rare even in the Marches.

22

Military

Cruiser forces are similarly deployed for the most part,
although a significant number are based further back
to counter raids like those of the Third Frontier War.
Support vessels, such as tankers, are mainly deployed
in the rearward bases along with a fair proportion of the
sector fleet’s destroyer strength.
Light vessels such as escorts are largely deployed with
the major battle squadrons, the remainder dispersed
throughout the sector for patrol and security work. In
this capacity, they back up the larger numbers of light
vessels available to subsector commands.
Two semi-independent commands exist. One is the
Darrian Squadron, a small force deployed to the
Darrian Confederation as a gesture of solidarity. The
other is rather larger and includes an entire BatRon
(Battleship squadRon), albeit of older capital ships and
several cruisers, and is based in the Five Sisters. Its
responsibility is to maintain the interdiction of the Droyne
worlds at Andor and Candory, and launch the occasional
sweep spinward or rimward of Imperial territory.
This somewhat dispersed deployment has been criticised
but there are justifications, one being maintenance of a
fierce face to deter aggression. There is also a perceived
need to meet any incursion far forward to prevent a
repeat of the Third Frontier War, in which the Navy was

