censured for its perceived lack of activity. There are
those who fear these deployments are motivated too
much by politics rather than military reality but their
protests, despite being repeatedly made at the court of
Duchess Delphine, have not been heeded.

A significant marine force is maintained at naval bases
for deployment at need. These forces are under Navy
command and operate in conjunction with naval assets.
Imperial Army formations, on the other hand, have an
independent command structure.

Every subsector that contains Imperial worlds has a
subsector fleet assigned to it, numbered rather than
named. For example, the Imperial 193rd Fleet is based
at Frenzie and responsible for the defence and security
of the Vilis subsector.

Like the Navy, the Imperial Army maintains local
headquarters in each subsector with a sector
headquarters at Mora. Major Army forces, including
aerospace and orbital defence formations, are deployed
to critical worlds along the frontier, while the remainder
are based further back. Detachments are deployed
throughout the sector on missions as varied as internal
security, counterinsurgency and peacekeeping roles.

The strength of the subsector fleets varies considerably.
Most are built around a core consisting of a cruiser or
carrier as flagship, a squadron or two of destroyers and a
varying number of escorts and patrol ships. Technically,
the subsector fleet also contains system squadrons of
worlds that possess them, along with the security and
defence squadrons assigned to naval bases. However,
since these are not normally capable of leaving their
home system, they usually devolve to local control.
The subsector fleets are assigned a mix of vessels
supposedly adequate to meet patrol, security and
defensive needs within their area of operations but, in
practice, there are always too few vessels, and subsector
admirals continually ask for reinforcements or assistance
from Sector Command. Numbers are also made up by
Colonial Fleet vessels, which include Scout Service
ships and a few minor combatants on loan from nobles
or world governments.
In time of war, some subsector commands could expect
to receive cruisers or battleships transferred from Sector
Command or deployed as reinforcements in important
subsectors. ‘Fortress’ worlds with their own powerful
forces provide for their own defence but the rest of the
subsector would be vulnerable until the Sector Fleet
could drive invaders out.

There is always conflict going on somewhere, or else
a need for Army personnel to assist in disaster-relief
operations. For the most part, however, these are
minor operations and the Army as a whole is on a
peacetime footing.

Shipping and Communications

Information and goods both move in much the same
manner, carried along major trade routes between larger
ports then spreading out to worlds along ‘feeder’ routes,
usually aboard smaller ships as distance from the major
routes increases. This is adequate for routine cargo
but priority items and important messages are often
sent aboard small, fast courier ships that cannot make
a profit from standard-rate bulk shipping but charge a
higher fee for fast or secure service.
Most large organisations, corporations, Imperial services,
and armed forces, tend to maintain their own courier
network. As a rule, information moves along the x-boat
routes at a theoretical maximum speed of jump-4 and,
on average, somewhat slower. Dedicated high-jump
couriers deliver critical information faster, although at an
appropriately high price – jump-6 couriers are not cheap.

[[[Small map of these trade routes]]]

23

