Non-urgent and civilian communications across the
Marches are carried in several ways. The express
boat (x-boat) network carries routine messages in
electronic format between x-boat stations, from where
the information spreads like ripples on a pond. Scout
Service vessels and commercial couriers carry mail
dumps, duplicates of all electronic media to arrive in the
past few weeks, to nearby worlds on a regular basis. This
means that any given message arrives several times,
ensuring that a problem with a ship or data packet
simply means a delay rather than loss of data.
Worlds that receive few vessels can be weeks or even
months behind the times. The story of a world that
does not know the Fourth Frontier War has ended yet is
apocryphal but backwater systems do not get updates
very often.
Physical mail and freight can be even less common on
some worlds. Many small merchant vessels supplement
their income as ‘mail ships’, which simply means
having a dedicated cargo area made available for small
packages intended for destination worlds. If there are
none, the mail space is used for other purposes. Many
worlds are part of postal unions that have a dedicated
mail ship (or several) plying between them, ensuring
electronic mail arrives in a timely fashion and physical
items reach their destination sooner or later.
Ships are sometimes chartered to take cargo to a
specific destination, or a collection of incidentals will be
placed in a standard container and shipped at normal
freighting rates whenever a vessel is headed in the right
direction. This occasionally results in a vessel delivering
a 1-ton shipping container that holds only a few small
items. It is of no concern to the vessel operator
whether the container is full or not; the fee for
carrying it is the same.
The other way that goods move around is through
speculative trading on the part of shipowners. Rather
than take a cargo in return for a flat fee, a ship operator
may decide to buy goods at one port and sell them at
another, hoping for a profit. Shipping empty hold space
is expensive, so even goods that do not cover these costs
are better than carrying nothing.
Exploratory trade is a special case of speculative trade.
In this case, a speculative cargo is taken into an area
in order to investigate its trade potential. New markets
opened in this way can be very lucrative but risks are
high; there is no guarantee of selling the cargo at all.
Exploratory trade is the province of specialist trade
scouts and the occasional free trader captain gripped by
entrepreneurial spirit.

24

Megacorporations

Megacorporations are active in the Spinward Marches;
indeed, it was LSP that first set up a trade base at
Mora and paved the way for expansion into the sector.
Corporate freighters belonging to Delgado and Tukera
run into Mora and then up the Spinward Main, although
on the whole smaller ships are used for runs deeper into
the Marches.
Exceptions include the major lines through to Lunion,
Trin and Glisten, and coreward towards Rhylanor and
Regina. These runs are plied by big megacorporate
freighters and liners as well as smaller ships.
The financial corporations are active wherever there is
a need for investment and those with mining interests
(notably LSP and Sternmetal Horizons) have facilities
on several mainworlds, outsystem planets and planetoid
belts. Similarly, trade and commerce exist everywhere,
although many areas of the Marches are not worth
megacorporate interest; they simply do not offer
enough return.
Instellarms has major facilities in the Marches, offering
weaponry to governmental, corporate and mercenary
clients. Its regional headquarters is at Mora but many
major worlds have an office or other facilities.
As a rule, the megacorporations can be encountered
wherever it is worth their while to operate. Low-tech and
low-population worlds are not good prospects and nor
are hard-to-reach places. Thus, the big firms are mainly
restricted to major worlds with good communications
links to the rest of the Imperium. This creates a niche
for smaller corporations and minor firms, including
freelance outfits, to make a profit in the gaps between
the major players’ fields of interest.

PSIONICS INSTITUTES

Officially, all research into psionics and the teaching and
use of psionic talents were prohibited three centuries
ago. All overt schools of psionics were closed down, psidrug corporations forced to end production and psionics
use in the Imperium more or less came to an end.
It is an open secret that the Imperium continues to
conduct research in order to counter the use of psionic
powers by foreign agents (such as the Zhodani) or illegal
users. It is also widely believed that psionic skills are
still taught in underground psionics institutes.
Exactly what constitutes an institute varies from one
case to the next. Some are academic in nature, operating
quietly on the fringes of society or under the guise of

