more legitimate activities. Others are secret societies,
crazy old hermits or other oddball characters who teach
their skills to an apprentice. All of these ‘institutes’ have
one thing in common – they are illegal and unregulated.
There is no guarantee that what appears to be a source of
psionic training is not a scam, con, cover for something
else, or a genuinely crazy person. It might even be
something quite sinister like a cult.
Even where psionics training is genuinely available,
it may be flawed or incomplete. Three centuries of
underground teaching has resulted in some serious
misconceptions and there is no recourse if an
individual’s quest for training ends badly.
This does not stop individuals seeking such training.
Most find nothing or come to the attention of the
authorities and are discouraged from continuing.
Others land themselves in trouble by poking around
in underworlds where they assume an institute can
be found, or waste large amounts of time and money
visiting obscure places, which are potentially dangerous.
It is entirely possible to starve to death or be killed by
wildlife searching the outback of a frontier world for an
institute that ceased to exist centuries ago.
There are, however, sources of psionic training for those
able to find them. Each is very different and the chances
of finding one that teaches all disciplines is remote, to
say the least. For the psionicist seeking to develop their
full potential, the quest for knowledge and teachers is
liable to be a lifetime challenge.

IMPERIAL

RESEARCH STATIONS
The Imperium maintains a number of research
installations in the Marches. Most are mundane
laboratories in cities of high-population, high-tech
worlds, where the staff go home to very ordinary lives at
the end of the day. Others are corporate laboratories on
contract to the Imperium or military facilities located at
army or naval bases.

Most do important but unexciting work, such as
developing improved targeting software for naval
applications or pushing the envelope of gravitic
technology to wring an extra tenth of a percent
efficiency out of gravitic systems. However, there are a
number of less ordinary installations that conduct highly
secret research.
These installations are located in remote areas of
inhabited planets or outsystem worlds, and designated
by a Greek letter (such Research Station Gamma

located on Vanejen in the Rhylanor subsector). Access is
restricted; the surrounding area is normally considered a
Red Zone and anyone visiting without a permit is liable
to be arrested and punished for the violation. Lethal
force is can be used against anyone declining
to surrender.
The nature of research undertaken at these facilitates is
highly classified. Most specialise in one area, but this
is not always the case, and wild theories exist about
what any given installation does. Most concern exciting
subjects like psionics research, biochemical warfare
and investigation of Ancients devices. All that is known
for certain is that these installations are highly secure
and that a lot of money is spent on them. Budgetary
allocations are not available for scrutiny other than by a
very select group of personnel within the Bureaucracy.

OTHER IMPERIAL

INSTALLATIONS

Other than military bases, scout service way stations,
and research institutes, the Imperium has a number
of installations within the Marches. Most are located
at highports and major cities, such as embassies,
administrative centres and recruiting offices for various
forces and services. The Ministry of Justice also
maintains a number of facilities ranging from training
centres to prisons.
The latter tend not to be large. Worlds handle their own
law enforcement and punishment of offenders, and
the Imperium only deals with Imperial felons. Most of
the latter are guilty of extremely serious crimes, which
may carry the death penalty. These hardcore prisoners
are detained in extremely high-security installations on
asteroids, in remote areas or aboard prison hulks
created by gutting a surplus starship of its drives and
weapons. Less dangerous perpetrators of significant
crimes, such as large-scale embezzlement, are also
detained in these installations.
Despite a number of accusations and entertainment
shows on the subject, the Imperium does not have
hundreds of prison hulks filled with political prisoners
scattered throughout the Marches. There are relatively
few Imperial felonies meriting incarceration in an
installation of this kind. The sort of people sent to them
are those considered far too dangerous to be dealt
with in any other way, or else those with a penchant
for escaping custody or evading punishment and
who therefore require special treatment. The cost of
supporting these installations is considerable, so they
are only used when necessary.

25

