vessel or a roundabout trip through Whenge. This is not
a problem for military ships but does make commercial
shipping to this cluster and Zhodani holdings in Jewell
more difficult.
The largest grouping of worlds centres on Cronor
(sometimes spelt Chronor by Imperial cartographers),
which is the Consulate capital of the subsector and a
major naval base. Cronor has the highest Tech Level and
population in the subsector, and is a major economic
centre. Unsurprisingly, it is also very heavily protected.
There are also important Consulate bases at Errere,
Gesentown and Cipango, and major fleet assets are
based at these locations. The bases at Atsa, Ninjar and
Sheyou are much smaller and play host to patrol vessels
and couriers that make the run to rimward into the
Querion subsector.
The Zhodani border has been stable in this region
for centuries, other than some slight readjustments
resulting from conflict. Culturally, worlds that are
members of the Consulate have been so for a long
time and are entirely comfortable as members. There
are also large numbers of people of Zhodani extraction
who live on the neutral worlds. These are not part of
the Consulate and, in most cases, have never been but
are still, for the most part, culturally Zhodani. Imperial
visitors often cannot tell the difference between nonConsulate Zhodani and their cousins on the other side of
the border.
Other groups, living on the same worlds, are not Zhodani
in terms of genetics or culture and this sometimes
causes conflict. In other cases the two groups live
happily together or remain separate without major
difficulties. Each world is different.
To spinward-rimward, stellar density drops off quickly.
The Querion subsector to rimward is sparse and as a
result there is little traffic across this gulf other than
official couriers and military vessels.

CRONOR

The Cronor system is the regional capital for the Zhodani
Consulate in the Spinward Marches. As such, it is
heavily protected by both in-system (non-jump capable)
and conventional naval assets, as well as ground forces.
A large detachment of what Imperials refer to as the
Consular Guard protects governmental installations and
stands ready to fight large-scale battles.
Express courier routes known as postal routes come from
deeper in the Consulate (via Errere) and are then staged
onward into the Querion subsector via Atsa, and Jewell
via Cipango. A minor spur runs coreward to the naval
base at Gesentown.
The Consulate does not have a separate Scout Service
like the Imperium, so operation of the postal routes and
similar communications duties are undertaken
by naval vessels. These are lightly armed but fast
couriers operating out of a dedicated section of the
Cronor naval base.
The Zhodani navy also undertakes a range of scientific
and exploration missions, and vessels of this type also
operate out of Cronor. Some function as intelligencegathering assets along the frontier but most are genuine
scientific vessels. Although lightly armed and part of the
navy, these are not combat assets and are no match for
a warship of comparable size.
Cronor Naval Base is located on one of Cronor’s moons
and is very extensive. Not only does it have formidable
fortifications for its own defence, there are numerous
long-range missile batteries on the surface for the
defence of the planet proper. Civilian access to the base
and associated moon is entirely prohibited.
Most visitors to Cronor are impressed, even staggered,
by the size and quality of the highport. Located in orbit
above Cronor, the highport receives all traffic from
outside the Consulate and most from within. Access to
the planetary surface is by a shuttle service operated
from the port. Zhodani-registered vessels can obtain
permission to proceed directly to the downport if
necessary, however foreign ships cannot.
The highport is a city in space, with residential areas,
parks, industrial zones and a full range of facilities for
those who live and work there, as well as visitors. Clean,
efficient and friendly, Cronor Highport is a showcase for
the Consulate and creates a good first impression. In
fact, the highport is all most visitors see of the world.
Travel to the surface is subtly discouraged and largely
unnecessary, given that everything a Traveller could want
is found in orbit.

28

