Cronor itself is an average-sized world with a very thin
atmosphere and plenty of water. Unassisted humans
cannot function on the surface, although all that is
needed is an air supply or compressor mask. Most of the
populace do not venture outside the huge, sealed cities
where they dwell. These are connected by maglev rail
links and fast speeders.
The cities are self-contained arcologies, with millions or
tens of millions living in each. There are some smaller
settlements but most have specialist functions. Places
where the bulk of the population live and work tend to
be large for efficiency and social reasons.
The cities are all slightly different but each is a
thoroughly pleasant place to be. As at the highport,
there are parks and recreation facilities for public use
and the streets are both clean and almost entirely
free of crime. Law Level is moderately low by Imperial
standards and to an outsider there seems to be little in
the way of enforcement; rather than policing an unruly
population, the Zhodani prefer to solve the problems

that lead to crime and unhappiness, making ‘fire
brigade’ style enforcement less necessary.
The people themselves are, for the most part, not merely
contented but enthusiastic about what they do for a living
or recreation. Rampant materialism is uncommon; there
is an underlying philosophy of ‘don’t show me what you
have, tell me what you’ve done’ among the proles and
intendants of the Consulate. Personal achievements count
for more than things bought with money.
With a population numbering in the billions, Cronor
has a huge and powerful economy that produces
high-technology goods for export as well as domestic
use. Some even find their way into Imperial markets,
although this is not common. Government takes the
normal Zhodani form of officials elected from among,
and by, nobles; not really democratic as the franchised
class is so small, but nor is it quite the same thing as
direct oligarchical rule.
Outside the cities much of Cronor’s surface is
uninhabited. The population is more concentrated than

29

