PLAVEN
Creating Zhodani Travellers

Viewed with fear by other races, the Zhodani
are believed to harbour powerful psionic
talents within a terrible and oppressive society.
Organised into three social classes (nobles,
intendants and proles), the Zhodani are
humans who have developed and embraced a
psionic potential that encompasses every level
of their society.

Characteristics

Zhodani Travellers have no modifiers applied to
their characteristics. However, every Zhodani
is tested as a child for psionic potential and so
has a PSI characteristic rolled for using 2D as
with any other characteristic, before any others
are rolled for.
A Zhodani Traveller with PSI 9+ increases their
SOC to 10 if it is lower than 10, as proles
with high psionic potential are automatically
elevated to intendants.
Furthermore, education is not encouraged
among proles and EDU can never be higher
than SOC. If a Zhodani Traveller has SOC 10+,
increase their EDU to 8 if it is lower than 8.

Psionic Training

Zhodani undergo psionic training, as described
on page 196 of the Traveller Core Rulebook,
before they begin a career (effectively before
their first term).

Careers

The following careers from the Traveller Core
Rulebook are all suitable for Zhodani: Agent,
Army, Entertainer, Merchant, Navy, Scholar.
More Zhodani careers will be added to Traveller
in the future.

on many Imperial worlds and this leaves considerable
wilderness between settlements. There is a fair amount
of plant life in the wilderness but few higher creatures
due to the thin air.

30

Plaven is a large world with a thin, tainted atmosphere
and a reasonable amount of surface water. It is capable
of supporting life and was settled by colonists as the
Imperium moved into the Marches. These arrived in an
ad-hoc and disorganised manner, often without proper
long-term planning or necessary equipment. Although
semi-random colonisation is discouraged by the Colonial
Office, it is not possible to prevent it along the frontiers.
In the case of Plaven, there was no organised settlement
programme. The world was far out on the frontier and
by the time it was surveyed, interest in expansion was
waning. Rather than a central and well-organised colonial
effort alongside random groups of landgrabbers, there
was only the latter. If any given settlement hit hard times,
there was no-one to turn to for help and no ICO-sponsored
colonial hub to join if the independent effort failed.
Some colonists did well, others failed and died out, left
or else joined other bands and shared their fortunes.
The various tiny colonies never reached the critical mass
necessary to become stable and grow, nor to pull in
offworld trade.
As a result, Plaven’s small population struggled at
subsistence level. High-tech gear wore out and although
the colonists adapted to the world’s tainted atmosphere,
their numbers dwindled steadily. Plaven was passed
over by the four Frontier Wars, its nominal allegiance
changing hands in treaty negotiations without any effect
on the population. Plaven is now officially independent
and part of the demilitarised zone between the
Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate. If the locals even
know about this, chances are they do not care.
Today, Plaven’s population is officially listed by the
IISS as several hundred people subsisting without
formal government, in a number of tiny hamlets and
homesteads capable of supporting a steam-powered
economy. There is no law as such, although the locals
enforce their own basic code of conduct and have a
working society based on the authority of senior
family members.
The largest settlement contains about 80 people and is
located close to a flat area of exposed rock that makes
for a good, stable landing place for the occasional
starship, with water from a nearby stream available to
be cracked for hydrogen to make fuel. However, there
are few reasons for anyone to visit Plaven – it is not even
on the way to anywhere – so what might be termed a
starport receives very few ships.

