The official IISS figures for the population of Plaven may
not be exact. Once every few years a Scout Service ship
lands at the port and its personnel carry out a population
census. Figures for the area around the port are probably
accurate; Plaven is one of the few worlds where the
IISS census actually lists every resident of the planet by
name. However, it is possible that other enclaves exist
elsewhere on the planet, perhaps survivors from another
colonial settlement that went their own way.
If other groups exist, they have thus far avoided official
notice and inclusion in the census figures. This could
be done easily enough, deliberately, but equally could
happen through a combination of low technology, remote
location and less than zealous surveying by bored IISS
crews sent to the far end of the Imperium to count
heads on some distant rockball.
It is possible that other groups might have higher or
lower Tech Levels than the official population, although
higher tech would have to be deliberately concealed as
emissions would be noticeable to even the most cursory
survey. It is known that several remnant sites do exist,
where early colonies were created then closed down or
failed. Occasionally a free trader lands at one of these
ruins, having mistaken it for a living settlement, and
returns to Imperial space with wild tales of a ghost
planet or worldwide catastrophe.
Most of these settlements were stripped long ago for
whatever could be salvaged but some are very remote,
beyond the reach of any of the remaining colonies.
It is possible that some of these remain intact. The
occasional salvage mission is launched by freelancers,
usually without much result. There have been big scores
made from time-to-time, however.
Plaven briefly came to the attention of the Imperial
authorities in 1093, when it was discovered that a
group of criminals specialising in starship-borne raids
on isolated communities along the frontier were using
the world as a base. Although the loot obtained by
raiding minor targets is minimal, the risks are also very
small, so what are sometimes referred to as ‘space-

going poultry thieves’ sometimes engage in such activity
between more lucrative operations. Be that as it may,
the band using a valley high in the Varnis Mountains
as a base evaded capture for a long time before finally
being eliminated in an action by Imperial Navy and
marine assets.
After that, Plaven more or less fell off the radar once
again, although Imperial patrols from Quar and vessels
from the Zhodani Consular Navy occasionally sweep
the system. This is infrequent enough that patrols
rarely encounter one another. When they do, polite
but guarded communications exchanges are normally
made before the vessels go about their own business.
Harassment and similar ‘cold war’ tactics are avoided to
reduce the chance of another accidental war.

RASATT

Rasatt is a dry world with a dense atmosphere lying right
on the border of the Zhodani Consulate. It has never
been incorporated, probably for lack of value. Almost the
entire population of around 90,000 live in a single city
that bears the same name as the host world. The rest of
the planet is wilderness. Rasatt (the city, although this
applies to the world as a whole) is a dangerous mid-tech
free-for-all, with gangs and local leaders controlling a
few streets each of the run-down city. There is no law
enforcement, although each group imposes its own rules
on the areas it controls. Conduct tolerated can vary from
street-to-street.
Rasatt is a haven for outcasts and criminals, and an
area of interest for several intelligence agencies. In
addition to hunting down the worst of the fugitives,
intelligence teams assigned to Rasatt attempt to gather
information on what is happening over the border. It has
been claimed that virtually every tramp merchant ship
that uses Rasatt’s so-called starport is in the pay of at
least one intelligence agency, and that more than half
the street gangs are composed of covert operatives. This
is surely an exaggeration but it is an open secret that a
quiet intelligence war is going on in the alleys and slums
of Rasatt.

31

