There is no Imperial subsector duke for the Jewell
subsector. It is instead administered from Regina as
an additional area of responsibility for Duke Norris.
However, there is a subsector fleet. This is the 212th
Fleet and is somewhat over-strength for the area it
covers. This force is backed up by Sector Fleet assets
based at Jewell, which include battle squadrons and
a contingent of cruisers obviously intended for raiding
operations into Consulate space if war breaks out again.
The exposed nature of the deployment has earned the
212th the nickname of Santanocheev’s Tripwire and
the suggestion that its role is simply to find out if the
Zhodani are serious this time. The latter is a reference to
the last two Frontier Wars, in which the Zhodani battle
fleets were generally held at the frontier.
The remainder of the subsector is ostensibly neutral,
although Imperial access to worlds behind the Riverland
Wall is very limited, allowing the Consulate much greater
influence over Condyole and Puparkin, as well as nonaligned worlds in Cronor.
Some of the worlds in the rimward end of the subsector
are coming under the influence of Arden or, more
accurately, the alliance of political and economic
interest groups collectively calling itself the Federation
of Arden. It is possible that some of these worlds may
eventually become part of an alliance with Arden,
although how the Imperium and Consulate will react to
this development (if it occurs at all) remains to be seen.
Esalin is an unusual case. Located between the
Imperium and Consulate, it was settled by the Imperium
in 835 and captured by the Zhodani in 1082, at the
beginning of the Fourth Frontier War. Imperial and
Zhodani cultures have become intermingled since then
and both generally get along amicably. As a result, a
joint communiqué issued in 1098 established Esalin as
a neutral and open world, which has since enjoyed good
relations with both the Consulate and Imperium.

34

FOELEN

Foelen is 80% covered in oceans, with little land that is
particularly habitable; low-lying areas are swampy whilst
most inland regions are steep and rocky. There are some
regions suitable for major land-dwelling habitation but
most of the population dwell in the coastal areas or the
seas themselves.
Despite a very thin atmosphere, Foelen has a welldeveloped ecosystem, which includes a number of
species not native to the planet. Some are obviously of
Terran origins, while others come from areas far across
Charted Space. Intelligent life is equally diverse. Around
20% of the 9 million or so inhabitants are intelligent
Dolphins, whilst another 40% belong to a humanoid
minor race called the Chokari. The remainder are mostly
humans of Zhodani extraction.
Contact between the Zhodani Consulate and Chokari
is recorded as occurring in 189. Initially, the Chokari
were thought to be a primitive species, of no great
interest. A few humans, of Zhodani and other origin,
settled on Foelen but since the early settlements were in
upland areas well away from the coasts, there was little
interaction in the early years.
It was not until 852 that the Chokari were revealed to
be highly intelligent, with a TL2 tribal-based society.
More importantly, they were found to possess significant
psionic powers. Within a year, the Zhodani Consulate
had formally annexed the world and settled a few million
people to formalise the claim. The main settlements are
still far inland, as is the starport, and most citizens have
little contact with either the Chokari or the Dolphins.
Some Chokari are taken for experimentation and,
although this is typically a fairly benign process – and
certainly not the lurid vivisection depicted on certain
Imperial vid channels – it is still distressing for the
Chokari and their tribes. The Chokari are engaged in a
very passive campaign of resistance to the Zhodani, who
in turn try to keep visitors from contacting them.

