Creating Dolphin Travellers

Dolphins are found on many worlds. Some were
apparently transplanted by the Ancients; others
went with humans when they later ventured out
among the stars. The Dolphins of Foelen appear
to be descended from a group uplifted to full
sentience by the Ancients at around the same
time that the Chokari were being engineered. They
are thus separated from Dolphins later uplifted
by humans by several hundred thousand years of
localised evolution.
The Foelen Dolphins are adapted for unusually
deep diving, although they can interbreed with
other Dolphins and are physically very similar.
They get along well with the Chokari, although the
two cultures live apart. The Dolphins sometimes
hire out to aquaculture concerns, assisting with
fish-herding or specialist underwater tasks.
More commonly, they live peaceful lives in the
ocean, enjoying contact with other species but
not requiring it. The Dolphins have a long oral
tradition, telling of the deeds done by their
ancestors in a complex history. Much of this
material is remembered in the form of epic poetry,
which enjoyed a brief surge of offworld popularity a
few years ago. However, it was too convoluted and
specific in focus to become a mainstream art form.

Characteristics

Dolphin Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: END+1, SOC-1.

Traits

Dolphin Travellers all possess the following traits:

Creating Chokari Travellers

The Chokari of Foelen share a common heritage with the
Dolphins of their world but their distant ancestors were
subjected to a much more radical programme of genetic
manipulation; it is thought that this occurred after they were
raised to sentience. The idea that their sentient Dolphin
ancestors were subjected to such experimentation causes
most Chokari to despise the Ancients.
The Chokari are humanoids adapted to life underwater,
although they are quite comfortable on land. They speak with
a clicking sound, reminiscent of Dolphin speech, and can
converse in the Dolphins’ own language. Relations between
them are amicable, yet sincere-sounding insults are often
intermixed with commentary on Dolphin epic poetry when the
two groups meet. The conceit is that Chokari pretend they
believe their Dolphin cousins are ‘unfinished prototypes’,
while Dolphins say Chokari were once perfect but then
became human. In reality, both groups are respectful of
one another and their insults are more like ritualised banter
between family members than any attempt to offend.
The Chokari have psionic tendencies but typically prefer
to confuse and misdirect than to harm an enemy. They are
resentful of the Zhodani occupation of their world but few
Chokari actively resist it. Instead they take the long view
– they have lived peacefully on Foelen for nearly 300,000
years and can afford to wait until the Zhodani depart. Most
Chokari are convinced that will happen sooner or later.

Characteristics

Chokari Travellers have the following modifiers applied to
their characteristics: END+1, SOC-1. In addition, Chokari
have a PSI characteristic rolled for using 2D.

Psionic Training

Deep Diver (300m): Foelen Dolphins can dive deep
underwater, to a depth of 300 metres without risk
and can hold their breath for up to 15 minutes.

A Chokari Traveller may undergo psionic training, as
described on page 196 of the Traveller Core Rulebook, before
they begin a career (effectively before their first term).

Echolocation (100m): Dolphins use a highly
sensitive echolocation sense to navigate their
environment, effectively allowing them to ‘see’
underwater or in complete darkness to a range of
100 metres.

Traits

Swimmer (12m): Dolphins are superb swimmers and
can move through water at a speed of 12 metres.

Careers

All careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook are
suitable for Dolphins.

Chokari Travellers all possess the following traits:
Deep Diver (100m): Chokari can dive deep underwater, to a
depth of 100 metres without risk and can hold their breath
for up to 10 minutes.
Swimmer (6m): Chokari are superb swimmers and can move
through water at a speed of 6 metres.

Careers

All careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook are suitable
for Chokari.

