JEWELL

Jewell is indeed a thing of great value; a more or less
Terra-Prime world marred only by a slight atmospheric
taint caused by volcanic outgassing. With very similar
gravity and weather conditions to Earth, the world was
highly suitable for colonisation. The first settlement was
established around 320 and conducted in an ad-hoc
manner without Imperial oversight.
It was the discovery of Lanthanum deposits, some time
later, that caused a much more focussed colonisation
programme to be launched, leading to industrialisation
and a rapid advance in technological sophistication.
Jewell was used as a forward base for further expansion
into the Cronor subsector.
As tensions with the Zhodani Consulate grew, a
squadron of naval vessels was deployed to the Jewell
system and a base was set up to support them. This was
a small installation, which was donated to the Scout
Service when the Navy built a much larger base
around 480.
A larger scout base was deployed a few years later and
the original naval facility abandoned for a long time.
Scout vessels from this base worked the communications
route back into Regina via Efate and conducted both
exploration and intelligence-gathering operations along
the frontier. The Navy meanwhile engaged in cold war
operations along the border, shadowing Zhodani ships
and trying to intimidate the Consulate.

GRANT

Grant is habitable but is interdicted (and therefore a
Red Zone) by the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service for
undisclosed reasons. It is commonly believed that the
IISS interdicts worlds to protect inhabitants or prevent
visitors from coming to harm, while the Navy does so
for strategic or political reasons. If this is true, Grant
may have an indigenous species species that needs to
be protected, although there are the usual wild claims
of ancient alien ruins and hidden research bases.
One persistent rumour is that the Imperium is quietly
building a city on Grant, perhaps as a retreat for highvalue personnel or as a large-scale social experiment.
No proof has emerged but the regular presence of Navy
ships enforcing the blockade makes many observers
wonder if something is happening on Grant beyond the
usual Scout Service interdict-to-protect rationale.

When conflict inevitably occurred, Jewell was on the
front line. The system squadron and Imperial Navy
forces put up a valiant fight but could not prevent the
capture of the world by the Consulate in 592. Some
sources claim that Grand Admiral Olav Hault-Plankwell
personally led the campaign to retake the world in
603, although others disagree. Contrary to popular
docu-drama cliché, he certainly did not take part in the
ground fighting to retake the downport.
Jewell was strongly garrisoned after the war and has
remained so ever since. During the Second Frontier
War, the world came under siege for several months in
617 but held out successfully. Afterward, the scale of
the world’s defences was increased yet again, with the
original naval base re-opened and several other facilities
constructed throughout the system. Although attacked
in the Third and Fourth Frontier Wars, Jewell was able
to not only repel the assault fleets but act as a base for
operations into the Zhodani rear, gaining the world the
somewhat fanciful media nickname of Jewell: Shining
Bastion of the Marches, or the rather more mundane
Imperial Breakwater. The latter refers to Jewell blunting
Zhodani advances into the Marches.

37

