Today, Jewell is something of an armed camp. Small
naval bases throughout the system support squadrons
of monitors and system defence boats to deny intruders
access to the system’s gas giants for refuelling, while
the immediate defence of Jewell itself is entrusted to
one of the largest non-jump capable fleets outside Core
sector. In addition, the naval base is home to the heavier
elements of the 212th Fleet as well as battle and cruiser
squadrons from the Sector Fleet.
Jewell is both militarised and heavily industrialised.
There are numerous military bases and many high-tech
industrial complexes on-planet. Pollution from the
latter is now much worse than the original atmospheric
taint. Breathing without a filter mask is possible, if
unpleasant, and very short-term exposure is not a
serious problem. However, respiratory diseases
and a range of cancers can result from even a few
hours’ exposure.
Clouds of brown smog are a common sight and a layer
of grime quickly develops on all external surfaces.
For this reason, the exterior of most structures is
simply functional and tends to be both drab and filthy.
Buildings on Jewell are built for efficiency without
regard to aesthetics, at least on the outside.
The towns and cities of Jewell are like the people to
some extent – outwardly unwelcoming but concealing
something very different. When able to shed their masks
and coveralls, the people of Jewell are friendly and
hospitable, although not to Zhodani, and Vargr are also
viewed with suspicion in some quarters. That aside,
the typical Jewellite (the term Jeweller is both incorrect
and liable to provoke a series of centuries-old puns that
nobody finds funny but have become something of a
social ritual) is demonstrative, loud and fond of strong
drink, especially if there are others to share it with.
Those returning to Jewell after an absence often run a
gauntlet of hugs and warm handshakes from people they
only met once, accompanied by a barrage of booze.

38

just three parsecs away, vigilance is indeed the price
of peace.
Jewell is easier to get to from the Consulate than the
Imperium. Jump-3 vessels can make the crossing into
the Regina subsector but ships with shorter legs need to
either arrange deep-space refuelling or else make a long
transit around neutral space via Plaven and Emerald.
As a result, the worlds around Jewell have their own
microculture, which also has local variations. It is
coloured by Zhodani influences on some worlds,
whereas others are vigorously opposed to anything even
remotely associated with the ‘Joes’ as the Zhodani are
sometimes known.

LOUZY

It is not hard to see how Louzy got its name. A small
world with an atmosphere both tainted and too thin to
breathe, lacking much in the way of water, it was hardly
a garden world nor a prime prospect for colonisation.
Nevertheless, Louzy was indeed colonised and the
colonies grew rapidly. The world proved to be rich in
mineral resources and enjoyed something of a ‘gold
rush’ in the mid 600s as the sector’s industrial base was
hugely expanded to meet the needs of the Fleet Asset
Replacement Programme. FARP was implemented in
several sectors that had lost a large proportion of their
naval assets in the Civil War or as reinforcements sent to
the Marches to fight the Zhodani.
At that time, the Imperial Navy was facing a crisis.
Its strength had been built up steadily, literally over
centuries. The massive losses of the Frontier Wars and,
more importantly, the Civil War meant a large percentage
of the fleet needed replacing and fast. System defence
assets also required replacement in heavily fought-over
systems. Crash-building programmes covered the worst
of the deficit within a couple of decades but this created
a second crisis as ships suffered block obsolescence, all
needing replacement at once rather than over time.

The six billion or so inhabitants are ruled by a
bureaucratic government based on the highly structured
system implemented during the rapid-colonisation phase
of Jewell’s history. Laws are strict and robustly enforced
but this causes little resentment. Jewell has been on the
front lines in several major wars and its population has a
rather unique outlook as a result.

All this meant there was a massive need for mineral
resources in the coreward end of the Marches and
significantly at the military shipyards of neighbouring
Efate. Huge extraction and ore processing operations
were rapidly set up, along with towns for workers and
associated secondary and tertiary industries.

The majority of citizens are members of one or
another of the world’s reserve military, medical or civil
defence organisations. These vary from highly efficient
organisations to social clubs but all share the same
outlook, the feeling that with their traditional enemies

The expansion was extremely quick; Louzy was a
metaphorical goldmine of minerals and the industry of
the Marches could not get enough of its riches. Wages
were high and living conditions in the mining towns were
as good as the corporations could make them. The best

