corp towns were operated by Sternmetal Horizons but
other firms followed a similar practice, in order to
attract workers.
It succeeded. Louzy was the place to go if you needed a
job, or if you wanted to learn, for education and training
packages were included among the extra benefits offered
to workers coming to Louzy. Seemingly every week there
was a new mine or processing plant opening, with new
arrivals coming to operate it and seasoned hands taking
promotions to head work gangs in the new facility.
It had to end sooner or later and, by the early 700s the
voracious demand for minerals had tailed off. So had
Louzy’s massive productivity; easy-to-access deposits
were mined out and some installations closed, plus
many industrial centres were getting their raw materials
elsewhere, at a better price.
Some operations moved to less viable, but still
productive, sites and carried on. The megacorporations
pulled out, to their credit taking care of their own people
by moving them to new sites or investing in corp towns
to make them self-sustaining. These former corp towns
ended up in better shape than most settlements, as
their former corporate owners helped create a modest
industrial base. Most other settlements had little
industry outside of repair workshops for their
mining equipment.
The Louzy Slump followed, inevitably. The world’s riches
had come from exporting processed ore and not only
was that more difficult to get at, there was little in the
way of local manufacturing capacity to make use of raw
materials now the interstellar market was not buying
everything that could be torn out of the ground.
Louzy struggled through hard times. Its economy was
based on ore that needed advanced machinery to
mine and keeping that machinery (as well as the cities
themselves) operating consumed the money from ore
sales. Occasionally, fighting broke out over a claim
or attempt to salvage equipment from a previous
mining operation.
However, things settled down in time. A world
government was formed out of representatives of the
mining settlements and collective bargaining improved

cashflow. Many smaller settlements were salvaged and
closed down, the population migrating to cities that had
industry and services, mostly former corp towns. Careful
management of the expansion programme prevented the
creation of ready-made slums and ensured people that
came in from the failing settlements were an asset to
local industry rather than a drain.
Today, Louzy is strictly-regulated but stable, with a
modest mid-tech industrial base exporting some raw
materials and an increasing amount of finished goods
through the remains of what was once a very extensive
starport. The latter is currently rated as a D class port
but could be refurbished to C or even B class with
suitable investment.
The world’s main problem is overpopulation in
its sprawling cities, which are constructed largely
underground to maintain atmospheric integrity. Money
is tight and there is little investment but investment is
desperately needed in order to get more from the world’s
huge population. Needing money to generate wealth
and not being able to get it, Louzy is facing a downward
spiral. Crime is on the increase and most citizens feel
they have few prospects. It may be that the valiant effort
made to halt the great slump has merely slowed it and
made the decline more painful.
Efforts are underway to improve matters. Imperial
funding and megacorporate loans have been requested,
without much success, although there have been some
instances of private concerns moving into Louzy on
very favourable terms. The world government seems
increasingly willing to entertain distinctly borderline
schemes if they bring in hard cash.
There is a steady exodus of people offworld. Some are
the best and brightest, using their skills to find a better
home for their families. Most, however, are semi-skilled
at best. Some simply buy a ticket for anywhere or work
passage aboard a passing ship in the hope of finding
a new start in a better place. Others are recruited by
mercenary units and other high-risk companies seeking
personnel. Ironically, the biggest recruiters operating on
Louzy are mining companies seeking entry-level workers.
Although these recruitment operations are small-scale at
present, they are expanding. This is a good thing – a few
less people is exactly what Louzy needs right now.

39

