SPINWARDS MARCHES-SUBSECTOR C

REGINA

Located at the outer edge of the Third Imperium, the
Regina subsector lies on the main trade routes towards
the Zhodani Consulate and Vargr Extents. An arm of the
Spinward Main runs through the subsector from rimward
before veering to spinward into Jewell. A jump-2 ship
can reach any world in the subsector by jumping from
the Main at the appropriate point.
The subsector is the responsibility of the 213th Fleet,
which has its headquarters at the Efate Naval Base.
Elements of the Sector Fleet are deployed at Efate,
Regina and Pixie, making the subsector one of the best
places to spot Imperial capital ships. Indeed, there is a
deliberate policy of flag-showing in place, using cruisers
and capital ships rather than the usual smaller vessels.
Almost the entire subsector is Imperial territory; only
Ruie is not. Imperial vessels tend to bypass Ruie,
heading coreward by way of Hefry unless they have
business on Ruie itself. Ruie is a high-population
industrialised mid-tech world, which could be a source
of considerable exports were it not for internal troubles
that have resulted in an Amber Zone advisory being
applied to the world. There is no actual restriction
associated with this, simply a warning to Travellers.
Roup is also Amber Zoned. Again there are no
restrictions in place, merely a warning to take care.

There are also three Red Zones in the subsector and
restrictions are in place regarding access to these. It
is possible to find out why a world is Red Zoned – in
many cases it is an open secret – and even to obtain
a permit to go there. However, this can be hazardous.
For example, Shionthy is generally ‘known’ (common
knowledge that may not actually be true) to have
antimatter particles floating free about the system.
Contact could cause massive damage to a starship,
making a Red Zone a sensible precaution.
The reasons for the Red Zones at Algine and Pscias are
not commonly disclosed but Pscias is known to have a
very low-tech culture and is thought to be interdicted
by the Scout Service to protect natives from outside
interference. Algine may be interdicted for the same
or other reasons; those interested enough to speculate
rarely have concrete information.
General Shipyards, subsidiary of General Products,
maintains major shipyards at Efate, Pixie and Regina,
and is an important employer in the region. This may
have serious consequences as General has recently been
hit with a number of lawsuits and complaints regarding
the quality of vessels produced for the Imperial Navy
and system squadrons. The cancellation of government
orders could have repercussions for the yards and the
local economy.

