KENG

Keng fits the popular image of a frontier world in many
ways. Lying at the outer edge of a cluster of stars
reached from the Spinward Main by a jump-2 ship,
although with difficulty due to Red Zoned worlds and
planets with very poor starports along the way, Keng
is one of the outer worlds of the Imperium. With the
Vargr Extents only a few parsecs away and no viable
destinations to travel onward to, Keng is a dead end as
far as travel goes.
For this reason, among others, Keng’s colonists never
emerged onto the interstellar stage. Although the world
was settled by several colony missions, none really made
a go of it. The population increased and spread out but
the Tech Level gradually fell as equipment wore out
before an indigenous technological base was created.
Keng is habitable enough. Although small, it has a
standard-density atmosphere whose taint is tolerable
to those who have had many generations to become
immune to it. Surface water is in short supply but not
sufficiently so to limit human expansion.
The original settlement pattern was typical of such
worlds; colony missions landed close to water sources,
usually where other resources were also available. This
resulted in a number of colonial hubs, from which the
population spread out where water was abundant.

A11/58231

With relatively few seas and rivers to limit travel, a
steady creep across the surface was easy enough.
Conversely, there was no cheap and easy method of
moving heavy loads, as there would have been on wetter
worlds with watercourses, so secondary settlements
tended to be small and created with what was easily
carried. This limited long-term development of anything
other than agricultural towns.
As the population grew and spread, the high-tech
equipment of the colonial hubs gradually gave out and
was replaced with lower-tech alternatives. Subsequent
colony missions repeated the process elsewhere on the
planet but there was never quite enough investment to
break the process of set-up, spread, and decline.
Today, the population of Keng numbers several hundred
million people, dispersed about the planet in several
clumps, with large areas of wilderness in between. Each
clump has a central city built around the original colony
site, along with a series of rings, each of smaller and
smaller towns and villages. Industry, such as it is, is
concentrated in the cities while smaller communities
trade agricultural produce for industrial items.
Most cities are now linked by a vast rail network. Steam
trains labour across huge areas of wilderness to maintain
contact between towns and cities, enabling what passes

KENG LONG-GUN

One of the more distinctive weapons found on Keng is the
long-gun, a double-barrelled black powder weapon with
outwardly identical side-by-side barrels. However, one of
these barrels is rifled and the other smoothbore. Favoured by
opportunistic hunters, the standard long-gun is chambered for
modestly powerful rifle ammunition suitable for game as large
as deer. The shotgun barrel is loaded with lighter shot suitable
for small game birds. A more powerful version is used by some
hunters who go after more dangerous prey.
Those made in the outback are typically flintlocks, with
percussion cap versions used by those with access to a more
developed chemical industry. Conversion from one mode of
ignition to the other is not difficult for a competent gunsmith.

Weapon
Keng Long-Gun
Keng Heavy
Long-Gun

TL Range
3 100 (rifle)
50 (shotgun)
3 100 (rifle)
50 (shotgun)

Damage
3D-1
4D-2
3D+1
4D+2

Kg
4.5

Cost
Cr300

Magazine
1+1

Magazine Cost
Cr2

5.5

Cr500

1+1

Cr2

Traits
Bulky
Bulky

43

