for a world government despite the world’s low Tech
Level. The ruling elite are sometimes referred to as
‘rail barons’ by offworlders. Only a few cities have the
industrial and technical ability to build and maintain the
locomotives, rail manufacturing factories and telegraph
stations needed to participate in the work of governance.
The remainder are rated TL3 by the Scout Service but
are towards the bottom end of the classification, while
many outlying towns can be considered TL2.
Although local law prohibits the carrying of any weapon
within the cities, the outback is an entirely different
matter. The government recognises that weapons are
necessary for self-defence and, equally importantly,
trying to take them away from the outback farmers and
steaders would be a hazardous proposition.
Keng is by no means a safe world. It has an ecosystem
of its own, to which has been added a range of plants
and animals of offworld origin, some from Terra. There
are a number of predators willing to take on adult
humans if hungry enough and, as a result, the farmers
of the outlying communities are a tough and resourceful
lot who value their weapons greatly. Most are handmade
black powder guns from the cities, though a significant
number of Keng Outbackers (as they are known) are
proficient with the bow or sling.
Trade ships that come through Keng find little on offer
in the markets besides agricultural products, which are
not available in great enough quantities to make bulk
shipping worthwhile. The world therefore receives few
visitors and has virtually no export revenue. Keng is as
close to a truly isolated world as it is possible to get;
there are hardly any imports because there is nothing to
buy them with, and no-one coming to the world to sell
them anyway.
As a result of this economic and physical isolation, Keng
receives almost no notice from the Imperium and simply
goes its own way. There are areas of the planet that have
hardly been explored or even surveyed from orbit since
the days of the first landings centuries ago.

REGINA

Technically, Regina is not a planet but a moon orbiting
the gas giant Assiniboia, which forms part of a complex
triple star system. The system primary is Lusor, an
F7 main sequence star orbited by a dwarf companion
named Speck. The third star is Darida, an M6 red dwarf
in a very distant orbit.
Darida has its own planetary system including a gas
giant and several ‘rockball’ worlds of varying sizes.
There are no habitable planets in the Darida system
although a few scientific outposts and a small Navy base

44

are located on various bodies. The latter is home to a
squadron of the Sector Fleet and supporting assets, as
well as a larger but constantly changing force of light
patrol ships from the subsector fleet. A pool of Navy
couriers also operates out of the base, serving both
system administration and fleets.
The Lusor system also contains various bodies ranging
from rockballs to gas giants but, as the only habitable
world in the system, Regina itself was the first to be
colonised and remains the main world not only of the
system but also the subsector.
Regina is the seat of the subsector Duke, currently Duke
Norris Aledon. Responsible for a subsector right on the
Zhodani and Vargr borders, and with a background in the
Navy, Duke Norris is more vocal than most in his calls
for greater military strength to be deployed to
the Marches.
He is also very critical of what he calls ‘overpoliticisation’ of the Sector Fleet and has repeatedly
asked for forward-deployed battle squadrons to be
pulled back into Lunion or Mora to create a more
elastic defence. This would leave the ‘forward’ worlds,
including Regina, vulnerable but Duke Norris maintains
that strong system defence fleets at major worlds should
be enough to hold out until relief forces arrive. So far,
Norris’ entreaties have fallen on deaf ears and he is
thought to be considering a direct appeal to the
Emperor himself.
Regina itself is an earth-sized body with dense
atmosphere and a high surface coverage of water.
This made it easy to settle and, within a few years of
the first colonists arriving in 75, Regina’s population
began to expand quickly. By the time the subsector was
incorporated into the Imperium (in 250) the world was
the obvious choice as subsector capital.
Since that time, Regina has developed steadily, although
more as a centre for trade and diplomacy than an
industrial complex. Lying as it does on the Spinward
Main, Regina’s excellent starport is an important
interface between regional trade and that bound for
distant regions. Most ships coming up the main from
rimward turn around at Regina. A few push on to Extolay
or Efate but, for the most part, it is more economical to
sell cargoes at Regina or transfer them to smaller vessels
for the last leg of the journey.
Many visitors to the Regina system do not go down
to the planet. The highport has everything necessary
for business, be it trade, hiring new crew or refitting a
ship. Those who do visit the surface find a comfortable
environment but one with a strangulous legal and
governmental system.

