Yebab is home to the Ebokin, who have a matriarchal
society with very strict laws and rarely leave their
homeworld. They are bilaterally symmetrical, with four
pairs of legs and two pairs of arms, and average less
than a metre tall although they are about twice as long.
The Ebokin are of very little importance in Imperial
affairs but Yebab is represented in the same manner as
other Imperial worlds.
Four worlds in the subsector are Amber Zoned; Zila,
Rugbird, Towers and Reacher, and there are Red Zones
in place at Corfu, Zykoca and Lewis. As usual, the
reasons for the Red Zones are not publicly available.
It is possible that Pysadi may be Amber Zoned in the
near future. The world has been dominated for many
years by a religious dictatorship that worships the planet
itself and imposes a number of very strict laws regarding
religious matters. Offworlders have been known to
unwittingly fall foul of these laws.
Notably, Pysadian law prohibits alcohol. This raises
issues since the world is well known for its fruit crops
and, while exported fruit makes good wine, that grown
on-planet and fermented there produces some of the
finest wines in Charted Space. The government has
been cracking down on illegal winemaking operations
in remote areas and, while this is strictly an internal
matter, the lure of big money for Pysadian Atrake
wine (made on-planet from Trake fruits) has brought
many offworld entrepreneurs to Pysadi in search of
their fortune. Recent newscasts about the Pysadian
Booze Wars are massively exaggerated but nonetheless
offworlders must be careful not to become involved.

ARAMIS

Aramis is part of a secondary main lying just off the
coreward-trailing tip of the Spinward Main. A spur leads
rimward into the Rhylanor subsector but the primary arm
runs to trailing across the rimward end of Pretoria. This
gives jump-2 access to Pretoria itself and the very edge
of the Lamas subsector beyond, although astrography
intervenes at that point.
As a result, Aramis and the region around it is
something of a nexus for trade into Deneb as well as
the Vargr Extents to coreward. Considerable quantities
of goods come into Aramis Highport from Pretoria via
jump-1 vessels plying the main and then transhipped

aboard jump-2 vessels via Nutema and Celepina, either
to the Spinward Main or Rhylanor cluster.
There is a very healthy brokerage and private shipping
industry operating out of Aramis Highport, in addition
to vessels of the mid-level shipping line Akurat, a
subsidiary of Tukera Lines dedicated to serving this
region. Actual Tukera vessels do come this far coreward,
if infrequently. Akurat ships call at the smaller ports of
the coreward end of the subsector although their main
business is done in the more settled areas towards the
rimward ends of Aramis and Pretoria.
Few vessels proceed to the surface of Aramis. The world
itself is forbidding, with a corrosive atmosphere and no
surface water. Despite this unpromising aspect, several
hundred thousand people live in Aramis, underground in
comfortable, high-tech and carefully sealed cities.
Aramis is the fief of an important member of the Tukera
family, although it is not directly ruled - officially. The
Marquis of Aramis is the richest and most powerful
member of the ruling class on Aramis, all of whom are
heads of critical industries or important businesses.
Thus, although the rank of Marquis is an Imperial title
and does not confer rulership of the world, the Tukera
family and the Marquis in particular dominate all
government affairs.
Aramis also hosts both a naval and scout base. The
naval base is co-located with the Highport and acts as
the headquarters for the subsector fleet and system
squadron, which is not large and augmented by a
handful of system defence boats crewed by
mercenaries. These are in service with the Aramis Port
Authority but paid for by donations coming from the
office of the Marquis. Heavy units of the Sector Fleet are
based elsewhere in the subsector but there is usually
a cruiser or carrier task group in the Aramis system on
guardship deployment.
Guardships are usually deployed for several weeks at a
time and normally relieved on station by a replacement
vessel or task force. It is not possible to maintain many
such standing deployments, especially of larger vessels
like heavy cruisers, without diluting naval strength in
the region excessively. Most naval deployments are part
of a patrol schedule whereby vessels proceed through
a series of locations in the course of a cruise, staying a
few days at each before moving to the next.

49

