The outer system represents rich, if hazardous,
pickings for salvage crews. The wreckage of battles
for control of orbital space can be tracked and wrecks
can be a lucrative source of under-the-counter military
components as well as more legitimate salvage. The
problem is that not only is salvage work in space
a dangerous business but the Sword Worlders in
particular take a dim view of unauthorised salvage,
seeing it as desecration of the graves of honourable
dead. Despite this, military salvage goes on and the
proceeds often turn up in the seedier starports of
the Sword Worlds themselves. At present, the gains
outweigh the risks.
One problem with salvage in the Entrope system is that
the system has no gas giants, so obtaining fuel without
visiting the starport can be a problem. A jump-2 ship
can carry enough fuel to make two jump-1s but the
usual solution is to melt ice from a suitable asteroid in
the system’s belt, then go looking for a suitable wreck
with full tanks. This allows a fast escape in the event of
a patrol passing by.
Although unlikely, this has happened from time-to-time.
More worrying are tales of salvage crews closing with
a wreck only to find that it is not derelict at all but the
shattered remains of a previous salvage vessel. Whether
these tales are true and whether the victims were
destroyed by patrols, in disputes with other salvagers, or
by some other means is cause for nervous speculation.

PRINX

Located on the outer spinward edge of the Marches,
Prinx is a small world with a very thin atmosphere that
is borderline-breathable to humans at sea level; that
is to say, a person without a compressor mask could
function for a short period before collapsing. During this
time, which would be acutely uncomfortable, the victim
would display increasingly severe symptoms of altitude
sickness such as confusion, nausea and dizziness.
Local animals, such as they are, have adapted to these
conditions or evolved in them and are not affected.
The local wildlife is somewhat limited. There are no birds
or other flying creatures; the air is too thin to support
them. Most larger animals are water-breathers, with few
species on land. These are mostly primitive crawling
creatures, with few species larger than a cat or small dog.
Much of Prinx’ surface is entirely uninhabitable.
With such a thin atmosphere, mountains tend not
to be eroded and remain sharp-toothed barriers to
exploration. There is less soil than on worlds with thicker
atmospheres and while this does not greatly affect life in
the valleys, highlands tend to be stark and rugged, with
little or no vegetation. The surface temperature is also

low on average, so that in many areas seas freeze to a
considerable depth and ice caps cover the land, greatly
reducing usable real estate available to humans.
The settlement of Prinx was a classic example of a
landgrab that could not be properly supported. The
colonists arrived after a long and difficult journey and
began setting up home on their new world which, if not
outright hostile, was not as welcoming as the mission
planners had believed. At least one follow-up mission
arrived before the project was curtailed and resources
diverted to opening up more rewarding worlds.
As a result, the colonists on Prinx were left to go their
own way. They did reasonably well, creating a stable
society that gradually expanded to cover an entire
subcontinent. Over the centuries, the population grew
slowly until the present-day level of several million
inhabitants was reached. Equilibrium was reached some
time ago and, with no population pressure to force
expansion, movement outward came to a complete halt.
The subcontinent today know as Lesser Dantterland is
well settled and ‘tamed’ for agriculture and there are
scattered settlements across Greater Dantterland. The
rest of the planet is uninhabited and virgin territory.
Within Lesser Dantterland, government is by a semihereditary ruling caste descended from the original
colony leaders. Succession is only semi-hereditary as
a ruler can adopt several unrelated individuals into
his or her household, who are thereafter considered
to be family and eligible for nomination as heirs,
representatives and holders of high office; heirs are less
often blood relatives than adopted household members
for a variety of complex social reasons.
Prinx was settled by Imperials and, much later, became
nominally part of the Consulate. Today, it is once again
independent, although most of the population are not
aware of the difference. Zhodani merchant ships (and
the odd military patrol) out of Sansibar come through
the port from time-to-time. Imperial ships are less
common, although they are not unknown and Darrian
vessels are increasingly frequent.
Some of these ships are en route elsewhere, others
come to trade. Offworld trade is not critically important
to the economy of Prinx, although it brings in luxury
goods and hard cash in return for a range of plant
products and minerals.
Darrian ships used to be very rare in Prinxport but
since the middle of the 1050s long-range vessels have
begun arriving, coming for three distinct purposes, most
commonly to trade; this seems odd, since reaching Prinx

59

