Vilis is a border region, with a little less than half of its
worlds being Imperial members. The spinward border
is more or less open, since space in that direction is
pretty much neutral. Any threat from spinward-coreward
is mitigated by the worlds of the Jewell Cluster (in the
Jewell subsector) flanking any Zhodani advance through
non-aligned systems in that direction.
However, there is a threat from rimward in the form of
the Sword Worlds, who have aligned with the Zhodani
on several occasions, guiding strategic thinking to some
extent. However, the distribution of star systems in Vilis
subsector provides a ‘firebreak’ to trailing, ensuring any
defeat in Vilis is likely to be a local one.
Preventing such a defeat is the responsibility of the
193rd Fleet, based out of Frenzie, Denotam and Mirriam.
Its most likely opponents are the Sword Worlds, whose
ships have lower jump capability than the Consulate.
Against less mobile fleets, a strategy of static defence is
possible and the 193rd maintains a number of guardship
deployments in the form of non-jump-capable monitors
supported by tenders but unable to redeploy on their own.
Apart from a single BatRon held at Frenzie as a
deterrent, Sector Fleet deployments in Vilis are mainly
light units in destroyer and light cruiser classes. Such
vessels are considered entirely adequate to deal with
border incidents with the technologically inferior Sword
Worlds and patrol the Abyss Rift. The Navy is also
responsible for maintaining communications with the
research station at Retinae and showing the Imperial
Sunburst in the neutral ports of Querion.
The world designated 728-907 has been catalogued for
a long time but was only recently properly surveyed. It
possesses a viable ecosphere with vegetation and insect
life but no higher animals have been detected and
the world has been passed to Imperial Colonial Office
(ICO) administration with a view to colonisation in the
next few decades. Some interest has been seen from
megacorporations, notably Sternmetal Horizons, but
nothing concrete has yet emerged.
Asgard is Red Zoned and has been for many years.
As usual the reason for this has not been released by
the authorities but the presence of a low-tech culture
suggests that the protection of the locals or visiting
Imperials is likely to be the reason.

The worlds of the spinward-coreward corner of the
subsector are gradually coming under sway of a loose
alliance usually referred to as the Federation of Arden.
As yet this is unofficial but a formal alliance seems to
be emerging. Since Arden lies between Imperial and
Zhodani holdings, these worlds are of strategic interest
and an additional player entering the game is a cause
for concern.

ARDEN

Arden is a moderate sized world with a thin atmosphere
and rather scanty coverage of surface water. Although
not optimal, this was sufficient to make Arden a
strong candidate for colonisation. Consequently, large
numbers of settlers arrived in the early years of Imperial
expansion into the Marches.
Arden prospered but did not thrive. The population
gradually increased to the modern level of some 1.03
billion but the world never quite became an economic
or industrial powerhouse. Nevertheless, a solid TL8
economy emerged, finding markets for its goods among
lower-tech worlds nearby.
Along the way, Arden’s governmental structure ossified.
Although officially government personnel are elected, in
practice they can only be elected from among the ranks
of the Arden Society, a select group whose members
earn their place through financial contributions or
service to the ideals of the society.
The Arden Society is dedicated to making Arden a
major player on the interstellar stage and works steadily
towards that goal. It controls the government of Arden
and a number of industrial or economic bodies, and
in recent years has begun to spread its net beyond
Arden itself.
The society has openly imperialist aspirations and is
working to create a Federation of Arden from businesses
and shipping lines. In time, this Federation will, its
members hope, include the governments of nearby
worlds. Although the project is in its infancy, already the
Federation has major business assets on close worlds
and is in a position to influence the making of policy.
The Federation is particularly influential on Caloran
and on Zircon and Utoland in the Jewell subsector.

