On Caloran, a steady takeover of agricultural-related
businesses is underway but, rather than targeting the
farms and landowners themselves, the Federation is
insinuating itself into the food-processing industry
(such as it is) and edging out local operators with
machinery and techniques from Arden. The farmers
can continue to raise crops as before but what passes
through the port for export is increasingly under the
control of the Federation.
Both Zircon and Utoland are rated as ‘non-industrial’ by
the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service but Arden-backed
industrial concerns, operated by personnel brought in
for the purpose, are operating on both worlds. The aim is
to corner the market in industrial production and make
the planetary economies dependent on Arden-owned
factories. Thus far, the strategy seems to be paying off.
Agents of the Federation of Arden are active on
other worlds too, seeking opportunities for strategic
investment that can later be converted into political
influence. In short, Arden is building a political alliance
by creating economic dependency.
On Arden itself, extremely strict laws and bureaucratic
procedures are in place. Enforcement is efficient and
vigorous, not least because the Arden Society uses
laws its officials pass to keep prospective rivals from
making any credible challenge. Meanwhile, the world is
undergoing steady industrial growth, accompanied by
investment in an expanded technological base.
Arden is especially interested in starship technology. Its
modest Class C starport cannot build ships, although
government yards nearby can maintain, repair and
service them using imported parts. Several Ardenbased businesses own and operate starships, and the
government has acquired a respectable system squadron
as well as a handful of small jump-capable warships.
Expanding either the military or commercial fleets
much further will require an indigenous shipbuilding
capability, which is at present beyond the investment
capability of Arden. However, the fledgling Federation
is strategically located in neutral space between the
Imperium and Consulate, and it is possible that the
Federation may play one off against the other to obtain
investment or assistance in necessary industries.
Arden (and its Federation) is neither hostile nor friendly
towards the Imperium. The same rules are imposed on
Imperial ships as on independents passing through.
These include import tariffs and other practices not
permitted within the Imperium and are not levied
against businesses friendly to Arden. A number of free

64

trader captains have come to an agreement with Arden,
trading nominal membership in the Federation for the
waiving of tariffs. This ability to conduct preferential
trade makes membership attractive to ships plying the
local spacelanes, although it is not clear what the price
tag will eventually be.

EDININA

Edinina is a moon of the very small gas giant
Karimissaak, whose name is often translated as
‘Laughable’. The mainworld has an eccentric orbit
that takes it through Karimissaak’s feeble ring
system, causing meteor showers and dangerous levels
of radiation. Despite this, the world is home to a
few hundred souls, most of whom are employed in
petrochemical extraction from the gas giant’s upper
atmosphere. The Industrial Collective of Edinina, to give
the world’s highly democratic society its proper title, has
contracts with Imperial corporations that send refinery
ships every few months. Other than these regular
contacts, the system receives few visitors.
A desultory campaign to have the Amber travel
classification removed (awarded due to the conditions
on the mainworld and surely well deserved) has been
undertaken by low-end lawyers at the courts of the
sector’s senior nobles. Those few ships that do pass
through are routinely pestered to join the campaign,
which the locals rather optimistically hope will open up
their world to immigration and investment.

GARDA-VILIS

Garda-Vilis was originally named Tanoose when it was
settled in -121 but the colony ran into problems which
became steadily worse until the situation could at best
be described as disastrous. The government of the
nearby world of Vilis came to the rescue and bailed out
the failing colony, at the price of becoming a possession
of Vilis. The world’s name was changed to Garda-Vilis,
which means ‘New Vilis’ in one of the local dialects.
Ever since, Garda-Vilis has been exploited to the benefit
of nearby Vilis. Agriculture was encouraged but heavy
industry kept under strict control. Today, all major
industrial operations are owned by Vilis, keeping the
colony economically dependent.
The world itself is large, with a tainted atmosphere and
extensive ocean coverage. This still leaves plenty of
room for the populace, numbering somewhat more than
470 million. The majority dwell on the world’s largest
continent, mostly around the coasts.

