The major population centre and capital has grown up
around the world’s large downport, which also serves
a small Imperial scout base. The latter is important
as a communications link back into the Imperium via
Frenzie, Denotam, and thereby into Lanth, and as a base
of operations for Scout Service vessels in the region.
The government of Garda-Vilis takes the form of
administrative apparatus answering to Vilis itself. The
world is run by a council of Vilis army officers and this
is not popular. A rebellion in 1103 was put down by the
council, at the cost of what remaining public sympathy
the colonial administration still had. Today the only progovernment group on Vilis is the population dwelling in
and around the capital, as many of these individuals are
employed by the starport or its associated industries.
There is a strong independence movement on GardaVilis, calling itself the Tanoose Freedom League
(TFL). The harsh measures used in 1103 drove the
TFL underground for a time but increased its base of
sympathisers. It has become apparent that some outside
agency is smuggling advanced weapons to the TFL and
providing training to insurgent units.
The TFL maintains that it is loyal to the Imperium and
wants to bring a free Garda-Vilis (or more accurately, a
world named Tanoose) into the Imperium. In 1083 the
anti-Imperial terrorist Ine Givar organisation approached
the TFL with offers of alliance. The bodies of the Ine
Givar agents were found outside the scout base. This
was taken as a reminder of both the TFL’s pro-Imperial
stance and its rejection of the Ine Givar proposal.
The region around Garda-Vilis is of interest not only to
the Imperium but also the Consulate, Sword Worlds and
fledgling Federation of Arden. There have been hints
that one or all of these foreign states was interested in
events on Garda-Vilis, and it is possible that the TFL
might align itself with a foreign power if offered a real
chance at independence.
Thus far, the rebellion on Garda-Vilis has been treated
as an internal matter and Imperial Army forces have
not been deployed. Were foreign influences found to be
involved, that policy might be revised. In the meantime,
the ruling council is stretched very thin. Local forces
have been deemed untrustworthy and disarmed, leaving
the administration desperately short of manpower at a
time of deepening crisis.
Various measures have been suggested to mitigate the
situation, ranging from the use of mercenary forces to
augment the Vilis Civil Affairs troops, a Navy guardship

Ine Givar

The Ine Givar is considered to be a terrorist
organisation but the truth is more complex. The
movement began as a peaceful attempt to obtain
democratic reform in Imperial territory and still
maintains a pro-democracy stance. However,
elements of the movement lost patience long ago
and began to resort to more dramatic means.
There are, broadly speaking, three philosophies
within Ine Givar membership, peaceful reform,
honourable struggle and any-means-necessary.
Not all of those taking the latter position support
terrorism. Some have aligned themselves with
Zhodani or Sword World intelligence agencies or
have moved from wanting to promote democratic
reform to simply opposing the Imperium.
The Ine Givar movement has become an umbrella
for insurgencies on various worlds, anti-Imperial
terrorism, organised crime and peaceful leaflet
campaigns. Membership is proscribed by Imperial
edict but not automatically assumed to mean that
members are guilty of terrorism. However, the
threat of prosecution is a useful tool in obtaining
cooperation from captured members, who are
a major source of intelligence for the Imperial
authorities. The Ine Givar movement has responded
to this threat by increasing compartmentalisation
of an already splintered organisation. There are
some who believe there is no longer a central
leadership and that local groups are essentially
independent despite claiming loyalty.

to intercept arms shipments or the appointment of an
Imperial noble to represent the world. The latter was
vigorously rebuffed by the government of Vilis - colonies
do not have their own representatives, they are looked
after by their parent world. Assigning a representative
would be a step towards recognising Garda-Vilis as an
independent world and this is not acceptable to the
government that has benefited from having it as a colony
for 1,000 years or more.
The situation on Garda-Vilis continues to simmer,
sometimes violently. With the majority of the population
opposed to offworld rule, and not greatly benefiting
from it, and a ready supply of weapons available for the
use of rebels, it would seem to be only a matter of time
before things come to a head.

65

