SAURUS

Saurus is a border world, strategically significant only in
that it provides a jump-2 link from Sword World space
towards Lanth. It is an entirely habitable world that has
remained undeveloped partially for lack of trade links
passing through and partly due to a combination of
local factors.
Saurus was named for the great variety of reptilian life
encountered by early explorers. Some creatures are
very large, posing a threat to farms and settlements
within their territory but the most notable reptiles
are a minor race catalogued as Saurians by Imperial
researchers. Their own name for their species is difficult
to pronounce so the nickname has become universal.
Human colonists arrived on Saurus before the native
inhabitants were identified as sentient and claimed
areas of the planet with a stable TL7 society, which
incorporates significant numbers of Saurians as
workers. These ‘humanised’ Saurians operate vehicles
and machines at a basic level but are insufficiently

Creating Saurian Travellers

Saurians are more heavily built than the average
human, warm-blooded and omnivorous. They
have advanced to full sentience, albeit not
very highly intelligent compared to humans,
and are capable of abstract thought and
clever innovation.
Although they have a hunter culture, Saurians are
peaceable and friendly towards others. They are
quite accepting of strangers even if they belong
to a species the Saurians have never seen.
Saurians are capable of great violence and some
serve as guards or soldiers in human settlements.
They are not reluctant to fight but have a strong
sense of what is necessary and what is not.

Characteristics

Saurian Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: STR+2, END+2.
They roll 2D3 to determine INT and 1D to
determine EDU.

Traits

Saurian Travellers all possess the following traits:
Armour (+2): Saurians have thick, scaly skin that
can shrug off light blows without a scratch. They
have natural armour Protection +2.

Careers

The following careers from the Traveller Core
Rulebook are all suitable for Saurians: Citizen
(worker), Drifter (barbarian, wanderer).

intelligent to be safe without supervision. ‘Like
a Saurian in an air/raft’ is a local figure of
speech for
well-meaning ineptitude.
There are larger numbers of native Saurians
living all over the planet. Those dwelling close
to human-dominated settlements trade for
tools and can be quite inventive in their use.
More distant groups are still living as they
were when humans arrived, using well-made
stone and wooden tools. A number of scientific
expeditions have visited Saurus, observing the
influence of a more advanced society on the
developing Saurians.

66

