The Abyss Rift

The Abyss Rift is an unofficial designation given to
a region of space lying spinward of the Spinward
Main as it runs through the Lanth subsector.
Its actual extent is nebulous; some include the
trailing parts of Vilis, others consider that only the
region around Victoria and Sonthert is the Abyss
and the surrounding region of low stellar density is
just a normal rift.
The Abyss Rift is associated with jumpspace
phenomena and a higher than average rate of
misjumps. Much of what is ‘known’ about the rift
is speculation based upon tales told in starport
bars but statistically there is a higher tendency for
ships to misjump or suffer mishaps in the region.
The idea that the rift is a bad place does seem to
have some scientific basis.
The Abyss Rift is an example of a jumpspace
trench (see The Great Rift), an area where
jumpspace is ‘deeper’ and subject to different
physical laws. The vast majority of ships traversing
the region will suffer no ill effects but you may
never convince a superstitious Traveller that they
are safe.

Curious jump-related phenomena have been reported
in this region for centuries, often by reliable witnesses.
Scout Service x-boat pilots plying the Trans-Abyss
Rift route have filed reports ranging from radio signals
received (impossible) to ‘something on the hull, trying to
get in’ (positively crazed) while in jumpspace, begging
the question of whether someone who has spent a week
alone in jumpspace is a reliable witness or not.
Despite the bad reputation of the region, the main
naval bases for the subsector fleet (the 18th) and those
elements of the Sector Fleet deployed to the Lanth
subsector are located in the Abyss Rift or along its edge
at Ivendo, D’Ganzio, Lanth and Ghandi.
All worlds in Lanth are Imperial members. Three
(Wypoc, Quopist and Rhise) are Amber Zoned at present
for various reasons. There are also four Red Zones of
which three (Ylaven, Victoria and Sonthert) lie within the

Abyss Rift. A certain segment of the population takes
this as additional proof that the rift is a very bad place
where awful things happen.
The fourth Red Zone, Djinni, is an uninhabited but
apparently habitable world on the Spinward Main
and the Red Zone makes access to Yori in Regina
problematical for jump-1 ships. Vessels approaching
the world are warned off and directed to the system’s
gas giants to skim fuel. Those that cannot do this are
permitted to refuel from a small tanker kept on standby
for the purpose, although they are charged over the odds
for the privilege. As usual, the Imperial authorities are
not forthcoming about why they go to such trouble to
keep visitors away from Djinni.

DINOM

Dinom is a typical rockball world, a member of
the Imperium under the governance of the Dinom
Corporation. Settled for economic reasons, it is officially
listed as an oligarchy in the IISS database but could
be considered a corporate state in which the main
shareholders and owners of facilities form a
planetary nobility.
The planetary economy is based on mining and ore
processing, and the owners of the major ore-handling
plants, mines and industrial facilities more or less
constitute the government. The World Board, as it is
known, has some representation for those who are not
shareholders in the main economic assets of the world
and for the small populations dwelling outside the main
cities but, for the most part, their voices are drowned
out by the major shareholders in the Dinom Corporation.
Orbiting a considerable distance from a very bright star,
Dinom is far too small to retain an atmosphere of any
kind and therefore lacks liquid water. It is a quasi-moon,
once belonging to the system’s gas giant. Having been
perturbed out of its orbit, it was captured in the gas
giant’s trailing Trojan point and follows the bigger planet
around in its orbit.
Dinom rotates at the same rate as it orbits its star, little
more than a small bright disc in the sky. The star puts
out enough energy to make the surface pointed towards it
very hot, while the opposite side is exposed to the cold of
space. Dinom thus has a ‘bright face’ and a ‘cold face’,
as well as a zone of twilight where temperatures are less
extreme. All major settlements are built in this zone.

69

