There are three major cities on Dinom, with a total
population of less than 250,000. Most live and work
in these cities, which are connected by a monorail link
or, rather, will be connected ‘very soon’. The monorail
system has been due for completion ‘very soon’ for an
inordinately long time and cynics suggest it will never
be completed.
There are an unfortunately large number of cynics on
Dinom. Although wages are good, many people are
ceasing to see Dinom as a place to earn a salary and
instead consider it their home. This shift has increased
disaffection among the populace, who (probably
correctly) believe Dinom Corporation is all about
wringing profit out of the world rather than looking after
the interests of the people who live there.
At present, the unrest takes the form of grumbling,
labour disputes over minor issues that would have been
ignored or cleared up in minutes just a few years ago,
along with the occasional strike. The World Board has
made a number of concessions to the workers but has
not addressed major issues regarding Dinom-as-home
rather than Dinom-as-workplace.
The World Board believes it is simply not cost-effective
to implement social programmes and improve Dinom
as a place to live. In this, they too are probably correct.
The Dinom Corporation looks after its workers well
enough but does not see the need to consider long-term
development of the world.
There are those who have begun suggesting that
what Dinom needs is a change of government. This
hypothetical new government would allow the Dinom
Corporation to continue its operations but would spend
much more on long-term social development. The World
Board is unlikely to accept this proposal and, in any
case, it is unworkable. The money for these programmes
would have to come from the only real source of wealth
on the planet – the Dinom Corporation.
While the major processing works are located in the
equatorial cities, there are small settlements a short
way into the cold and bright faces. The only reasons to
venture outside the relatively safe equatorial zone are
economic. On the cold face, there are veins and deposits
of minerals to be dug out of the ground and it is
possible to extract frozen gases from deposits. These are
purified and shipped in solid form or piped as liquids
back to processing centres for industrial use.

70

Operating on the cold face is hazardous. In addition to
the dangers of an airless world such as dust pools that
seem only centimetres deep, micrometeorite showers
and the occasional deep crevasse, super-cold terrain has
its own unique ways to harm unwary Travellers.
Cold face hazards include lakes of frozen gas that
rapidly sublimate when exposed to heat, such as that
given off by an ATV. Deep crevasses are also present,
where rock has been split by explosive sublimation
in the past, when a deposit of frozen gas is exposed
to heat.
The bright face is, if anything, more dangerous.
However, the extremely high temperatures are
beneficial in some ways when mining for metals.
Conventional mining is carried out and there are other,
less commonplace, ways to obtain minerals in this
environment. It is possible to encounter pools of liquid
metal that can simply be piped into holding tanks.
These metals tend to be those with a lower melting
point but pool-draining is a quick way to obtain a large
amount of metal. The occasional geyser of molten metal
is far more hazardous, although if the period of the
geyser can be predicted it is possible to send in teams
to harvest clumps of solidified metal after an eruption.
This is dangerous but has the advantage that metal so
obtained tends to be very pure.

K’KIRKA

KKirka is, to most starfarers, little more than a stopover
on the Spinward Main. Marketing materials proclaim
it as the ‘last good port before Regina’, which is highly
inaccurate but refers to the cluster of Amber and Red
Zones that must be traversed before reaching more
salubrious surroundings. The port itself is nothing special,
although its traders play on the ‘difficult run ahead’
theme to sell overpriced starship spares and luxury items
imported from further along the Spinward Main.
K’Kirka is primarily a mining colony, featuring a small
population working largely automated mine sites
scattered around the globe, with the port acting as
economic hub. The world has two unusually dense
moons and an extensive collection of captured asteroidal
debris, all of which moves in an incredibly complex but
somehow stable pattern. It is virtually impossible for this
to have occurred naturally; the current, most popular,
theory is that the system was set up this way as some
sort of astrophysics experiment conducted on a huge
scale, probably by the Ancients.

