VICTORIA

Victoria lies in the Abyss Rift, just off the Lanth-GhandiDinomn x-boat route. It is one of four Red Zoned worlds
in the subsector and maintained by Imperial Navy
vessels out of Lanth or Ghandi. There is almost always a
guardship in the vicinity of the world, plus interdiction
satellites that monitor traffic. Occasionally, additional
vessels sweep other parts of the system, probably as part
of the Navy’s routine internal security operation.
The guardship is usually a small vessel such as a patrol
cruiser or close escort. The subsector fleet has a huge
section of the Spinward Main to patrol and the Sector
Fleet is mainly concerned with the Sword Worlds, just
a few parsecs away. Neither can spare large numbers of
vessels to monitor an unimportant planet in the middle
of nowhere.
Victoria is a very old world orbiting a venerable star,
deficient in heavy minerals and metals. Despite this, it
has a dense atmosphere, which carries a taint capable
of defeating most conventional filters. Fortunately, this
taint exists mainly at low altitudes and above 1,000
metres the atmosphere is safe to breathe. Below this,
an oxygen supply or fully sealed environment suit
is needed.

The human population numbers about 10 million,
dwelling on high ground in a region known as the
Mesas. There is no world government; different groups
have their own way of doing things that can range from
oligarchies and dictatorships to democracies and even
voluntary anarchy.
The Law Level 0 is an estimated average. Some areas
have very strict laws; most do not. Similarly, technology
varies from place-to-place, although always limited
by the scarcity of metals. Balloons and dirigibles,
sometimes powered by hand-cranked propellers, have
made travel possible between areas previously cut off by
low ground.
Victoria was probably colonised around -1450 and
isolated for a long time. Even after the Imperium settled
the Marches, the world received few visitors as a result
of its remote location. In 901, the IISS made a survey
of the world and shortly afterward a Red Zone was
declared. While the Navy does not discuss the reasons
for Red Zoning, the Scout Service is a little more
forthcoming. In the case of Victoria, the given reason
was to protect the people of the world from outside
influence as they struggled to deal with their
metal-poor environment.

71

