However, there is something else interesting about
Victoria and this may be why the Navy monitors the
Red Zone rather than Scouts, although Scout vessels
do sometimes visit. Normally, a Red Zone imposed at
the request of the Scout Service is monitored by their
vessels and personnel; the reasons are usually protective
or scientific. Navy-monitored Red Zones are normally for
political or security reasons, or to keep people away from
an area of strategic importance to the Imperium.
Around 300,000 years ago, at a time coinciding with
the disappearance of the Ancients, Victoria was heavily
bombarded from space by asteroids used as deadfall
ordnance, the technical term for dropping a heavy object
from orbit. The bombardment resulted in immense
craters, some of which are seas or great lakes today.
Others are not obvious, as they lie on the seabed. The
Mesas area was caused by a strike that cracked the
planetary crust and caused lava to surge up before
cooling, creating the unusual pattern of high areas
separated by chasms, which are quite deep but often
only 500-2,000m wide.
The best asteroids for planetary bombardment are rocky
or, better, nickel-iron cored ones. Thus, significant
deposits of metal are probably present at the centre of

each crater. However, most craters are now submerged
and all lie below the taint level, making access
extremely difficult. Some craters have a central upraised
point (a common feature of large impact craters) and
these could be found and mined more easily. However,
the great distances involved mean that such an
expedition is far beyond the means of the
local population.
It is possible to obtain a permit to visit Victoria,
although not by any easy means. Such a permit includes
strict clauses about trading metal or metal goods to
the locals and specifically prohibits access to Victoria’s
moon, Albert. Permits make it perfectly clear that
permission to visit the moon has not been granted and
that lethal force may be used, without warning, against
any vessel approaching it. No explanation for this has
ever been given.
Albert is large enough to have an atmosphere and
appears to even have surface water. It is officially
listed as uninhabited but there have been reports of a
stone-built (or, more fancifully, ‘crystalline’) city on the
surface. Official charts make no mention of this, nor of
any colonisation effort or history of habitation on Albert.

