Unusually, the Spinward Marches does not have a
system named Depot like most Imperium-dominated
sectors. Macene is the largest and most important naval
base in the sector and may eventually be expanded to a
full Imperial Navy depot. At that time the name may or
may not be changed.
The subsector is defended by the 23rd Fleet based out
of Rhylanor, Jae Tellona, Macene, Margesi and Nutema
naval bases, and there are heavy elements of the Sector
Fleet including several BatRons and CruRons held in
reserve at Macene.
Rhylanor subsector has a number of corporate bases,
notably at Rhylanor itself. These include shipyards
and manufacturing centres as well as research
installations. The Imperium maintains a research station
(designated Gamma) at Vanejen, located in a remote
area of the planet.
There are three Red Zones: Gerome, Huderu and 457973. Conspiracy theorists keep trying to link the latter
with the research station at Vanejen but this seems
unlikely as the Imperium would place its station at a
location within the interdicted system if there were
something needing to be studied.
Kegena is currently Amber Zoned. This low-tech
world recently suffered a major social upheaval and
governmental collapse. A temporary administration is
now in place courtesy of the Colonial Office, and backed
up by the Army, but the situation remains volatile and
caution is advised.
The atmosphere of Pannet makes it hazardous to visit
but contains a number of useful compounds, which are
extracted for use by heavy industry. Several companies
offer very good wages for hostile-environment qualified
personnel to work in the extraction process.
The belt at Gitosy is unusual in that it is spherical;
the orbits of the asteroids that make up the belt are
not confined to the ecliptic but proceed at all angles.
However, most are ice fragments and potentially
habitable rocky asteroids are mainly found in the
ecliptic plane or in only slightly eccentric orbits.

GILEDEN

Gileden is a rather peculiar little world, with a denser
atmosphere than its low surface gravity might normally
produce. This has not prevented the world from taking a
pounding in the past, with extensive evidence of asteroid

76

impacts in its distant past. There are those who claim
that the world was given its dense atmosphere by the
Ancients and then bombarded in their Final War, yet the
impacts vastly predate any known starfaring species.
The mystery is compounded by the composition of
the asteroids; the impact craters are still very obvious
and their centres tend to have high concentrations of
unusual minerals. It is possible that the bodies that
made these craters came from outside the Gileden
system, although how that might come to pass is
unknown. A wild tale surfaced some years ago about
part of an extremely old sublight colony ship – carved
out of an asteroid – which was found in deep space
near Gileden.
Gileden is home to a handful of ‘official’ residents,
mostly starport workers who decided to stay permanently
and changed their citizenship. Much larger numbers
of personnel work on Gileden but do not call it home.
Some work the port, some are scientists studying the
impact sites or unusual atmosphere conditions, and
some are prospectors hoping to make a big strike in one
of the craters.

RHYLANOR

Rhylanor is a small world with a very thin atmosphere
located in a cluster of three star systems just off the
Spinward Main. As such, it provides a useful short cut
for high-jump vessels and x-boats but is somewhat
inaccessible to commercial ships. The majority of traffic
into Rhylanor comes via the Celepina-Jae Tellona link or
from Fulacin to Porozlo. Access to the subsector capital
was one reason for the construction of an excellent Class
A starport at the otherwise unimportant world of Fulacin.
Rhylanor is home to several billion people, mostly
human, and has a moderate society with liberal laws.
Entry to the world’s ruling elite by those not born to the
right families is not easy but it is possible to join the
ruling class by a variety of methods, the most common
through power and achievement.
Elevation through power is simply a recognition of
the influence an individual already wields. Usually
this means business interests, ownership of industrial
assets and the like but in some cases individuals
who have risen to lead political or social groups have
been elevated to the ruling class. There are those who
suggest that rising political stars, who might challenge
the establishment are encouraged to sell out and join
the existing system; others maintain that Rhylanor

