is a meritocracy where those who deserve a say in
government are given it.
Elevation for achievement is generally linked with
service to the Imperium or Rhylanor’s armed forces.
Retired naval, marine and army officers are frequently
offered generous inducements to take up government
posts or simply be associated with the government
as advisors and public supporters. Achievements in
other areas, such as science or entertainment, are also
rewarded in this way, ensuring that Rhylanor attracts the
best and brightest.
Rhylanor’s most famous citizen was Grand Admiral Olav
hault-Plankwell, who not only defeated the Outworld
Coalition in the First Frontier War but advanced
on Capital and took the throne for himself. This is
sometimes described as the ultimate expression of
Rhylanor-style meritocracy. Plankwell had achieved
great things as a naval officer and wielded great power,
fulfilling both requirements for elevation, and deserved
to be made part of the ruling elite, perhaps as Archduke
of the Domain of Deneb. Empress Jacqueline was
foolish not to reward Plankwell’s greatness and paid the
price when he took what he deserved by his own efforts.
Reminders that Plankwell did not manage to keep his
position very long do not go down well on Rhylanor.
Admiral Plankwell’s birthplace is now a small museum,
which attracts large numbers of visitors every year.
This is only one of Rhylanor’s many naval connections;
although Macene is home to the heavy units of the
Sector Fleet based in the subsector, the subsector fleet
itself (the 23rd) has its headquarters at Rhylanor and
there is a very powerful system squadron. Rhylanor also
boasts a large naval academy where young officers-to-be
undergo education and training.
One of the proud traditions of the Rhylanor Naval
Academy is the ‘manning the boats’ ceremony
held just before graduation of each class of cadets,
commemorating the contribution of trainee personnel
from the academy to the defence of Rhylanor in the
Third Frontier War. Cadets volunteered in huge numbers
to crew repaired and reactivated system defence boats
from the system’s reserve fleet during the Siege of
Rhylanor. Casualties were very high in the dark months
of the middle of 981 before the siege was finally broken.
The ceremony is held in memory of their sacrifice and as
a reminder to cadets that they have not chosen a cosy,
safe occupation.

Rhylanor also has a large Scout Service base, which acts
as a communications depot for x-boat routes as well as
a regional planning and command centre. The facility
is extensive and contains training facilities for some
of the more specialised scout roles such as the use of
advanced communications equipment and the security
teams occasionally called upon to rescue personnel who
have found more trouble than they can handle.
Rhylanor, with its large population base and extremely
high Tech Level, is also a centre for industry,
commerce and education. The Rhylanor Institute of
Technology is one of the most prominent hard-science
and technological-research institutions in the entire
Imperium and almost certainly the foremost facility this
side of Corridor.
Several megacorporations have their regional
headquarters on Rhylanor or at least a major installation
for those who prefer to work out of Mora. Some of
Rhylanor’s extensive shipyards are privately owned but
most are either megacorporate subsidiaries or partially
funded by their money.
Rhylanor’s importance as a communications hub and
industrial centre cannot offset the fact that it is difficult
to get to. Free traders and similar independent starships
are rarely seen in the ports of Rhylanor, Porozlo and
Jae Tellona; they tend to stay on the Spinward Main.
The vessels that do come through are for the most part
expensive jump-3 liners and freighters running through
Eqqus, Celepina and Belizo.
Many of the ships on this route are megacorporateowned, although a couple of smaller lines make a decent
profit from dedicated vessels plying the trans-Rhylanor
routes. The most prominent, Rhylanor Shipping LIC,
is heavily subsidised by the government to ensure a
regular service. The firm does not operate anywhere else
but Imperium Mail LIC does, specialising in high-jump
courier and subsidised trade route operations in various
parts of the Marches, as well as Deneb.

VANEJEN

Vanejen is a moderate-sized planet with a dense
atmosphere and about 60% water coverage. Average
temperatures are low and about a third of the oceans are
frozen or covered by ice caps. Although somewhat suboptimal as a place to live, Vanejen can easily support
humans. It was settled around -2400 by Vilani colonists
but became isolated during the Long Night, falling

77

