back to barbarism before climbing back up to a modest
technological base. By the time the Imperium arrived
in the Marches, Vanejen had experienced centuries of
cultural drift and lost most traditional Vilani habits in
favour of a home-grown culture. The population were
initially pureblood Vilani and there has been little
intermingling over the centuries.

things had changed considerably as a result of offworld
influences. When the Navy came to Vanejen they did so
carefully, making a number of deals with local leaders.
In return for making the construction of the base easy,
the ruling elite were given orbital surveys of mineral
deposits and technological assistance in creating an
industrial base to exploit them.

Vanejen lies on the Spinward Main, a less-travelled spur
running coreward from Mora. This arm offers jump2 access to Jae Tellona and thereby to Rhylanor, or
another arm of the main to coreward, but is otherwise
unimportant to interstellar trade and political affairs.
This region has been a backwater for centuries and
never received much in the way of investment. It might
have remained entirely underdeveloped but for the
events of the Third Frontier War, which required the
Imperial Navy to create a temporary base on Vanejen
and brought interstellar affairs onto the locals’ doorstep.

In the century since the war, Vanejen has advanced
steadily to TL5, with most sectors of industry a
monopoly for one of the ruling families; literally all steel
production is owned by one family, all land transport
by another and so forth. Some sectors, for example sea
transport, are divided between several families.

Prior to this, Vanejen was a more or less forgotten
colony world, whose inhabitants managed to create a
stable TL2 society. Progress beyond that never really
happened. Vanejen fell off the map and escaped notice
for centuries. Only those locals who interacted with
starfarers aboard the few ships that came through were
reminded that there was a wider universe out there.
After the war, the Navy kept the base open for a time
even though it was no longer needed. Budget constraints
resulted in its closure after a few years but by that time

78

Today, Vanejen has a population of just over 540 million,
scattered across three of the world’s four continents,
the fourth being barren and more or less uninhabited.
Government is by a stable semi-feudal system based on
control of critical industries and the ruling families were
firmly entrenched in power even before they gained their
monopoly on industry.
Local travel is by rail, for the most part, but sea travel
is commonly used for commercial purposes. In the
northern hemisphere and equatorial regions, surface
ships are the norm but submersibles are used in the
southern oceans and particularly stormy or ice-prone
areas. Submersibles run on the surface most of the
time, submerging to avoid ice or ride out a storm.

