The submersibles of Vanejen range from small personal
transports to large cargo vessels and run on a dieselelectric system that can use a snorkel to pull in air
while remaining submerged. An explosives-rigged buoy
is carried to blast a hole to the surface in pack ice,
allowing a boat to halt, recharge its batteries and then
proceed on a long under-ice transit. These are not
military boats and are unarmed, with a large glassedin area forward and powerful searchlights mounted
alongside. This allows visually-guided manoeuvring at
close range although does pose a hazard in the event of
collision. Most boats are capable of operating at a safe
maximum depth of about 200 metres, and can survive
at somewhat greater depths.
Vanejen has a substantial population of Chirpers, most
living on the northern continent, despite it being less
hospitable than the other land masses. This may be
because the Chirpers have moved away from humans,
although that begs the question of how they crossed the
seas to their new home. There are smaller populations of
Chirpers on the other continents.
Chirpers are small bird-like humanoids with
vestigial wings and a reptilian tail, massing
about 25kg and omnivorous in nature. They
are semi-intelligent and capable of learning
a few simple Galanglic phrases, although
they mangle pronunciation horribly. Among
themselves they communicate with bird-like
chirps, hence their human name.

Chirpers dwell in family groups of hunter-gatherers on
the human-dominated continents, although there have
been sightings of Chirper villages, which are primitive
but show signs of agricultural and tool-fabrication
skills. They are considered a nuisance, sneaking into
settlements to steal food and shiny objects, which they
seem to like. They are not wantonly destructive but
can cause a fair amount of damage in their ingenious
attempts to obtain something they want; usually food
but they may be motivated by necessity rather than
mischief, it is a problem for the locals.
The humans of Vanejen occasionally mount expeditions
to drive Chirpers away from settlements and this has
been generally successful. Perhaps not coincidentally,
Chirper numbers seem to be falling.
Vanejen is listed as the location of Imperial Research
Station Gamma, reported to be a tower-like structure
built on the seabed in the far south, projecting up
above sea level. It is accessed by grav craft and supply
submarines from local contractors. As with all such
stations, the station is a local Red Zone; access without
a permit is strictly prohibited. It is not known how this
is enforced, nor what research goes on inside.

CHIRPER
ANIMAL

HITS
SPEED
9
9m
SKILLS
Athletics (dexterity) 2, Melee 0,
Recon 1, Stealth 2, Survival 1
ATTACKS
Claws (1D)
TRAITS
Small (-1)
BEHAVIOUR Omnivore, Gatherer
Chirper

79

