Creating Darrian Travellers

Over the centuries, the Darrians adapted to their
homeworld, gradually acquiring a distinctive
appearance. Although recognisably human and
capable of interbreeding with other humans, the
Darrians developed what some refer to as an ‘elfin’
appearance. They are tall and slender as a result
of the lower gravity on their homeworld and tend
to be more dextrous, if a little weaker, than other
humans. Their skin has a golden colour and hair
is white or silver-grey as a result of living under a
different sun for millennia.

Characteristics

Darrian Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: STR-1, DEX+1,
END-1, INT+1, EDU+1.

Traits

Darrian Travellers all possess the following traits:
Heat Resistant (-1): Darrians have slightly
reflective skin and their bodies retain water more
efficiently than other humans. They suffer one
point less damage from extremes of temperature
in their environment.
Heightened Senses: Darrians have better hearing
and sense of smell than other humans. All
Darrians receive DM+1 to any Recon or Survival
checks they have to make.

Careers

The following careers from the Traveller Core
Rulebook are all suitable for Darrians: Agent,
Entertainer, Merchant, Navy, Scholar. More Darrian
careers will be added to Traveller in the future.

While Darrian is the original home of the Darrian people,
it was thoroughly devastated by the solar flares of the
Maghiz and never regained its position. Pre-Maghiz
structures and artefacts attract many visitors each year
as they are of a higher Tech Level than encountered in
the Imperium or Consulate. There are strict prohibitions
on exporting pre-Maghiz items.
Mire is the modern capital of the Confederation and
all settlements are underground in order to preserve
the surface for parks, nature reserves and agriculture.

82

The Darrian people love, and are respectful of, life
although not to extremes. As a result, the surface of
Mire is a wondrously unspoiled environment, as is Rorre,
for similar reasons. Rorre was settled by Darrians who
disliked technology and preferred a rustic lifestyle.
It was untouched by the Maghiz and life on Rorre
continues more or less as it always has.
Torment is a prison world, used by the Darrians as a
place to dispose of criminals that even their tolerant
society cannot accept, with access prohibited in much
the same manner as Imperial Red Zones. Prisoners mine
raw materials in return for necessary supplies.
The world of Ilium was terraformed by the Darrians
before the Maghiz and retains a slight atmospheric
taint despite best efforts to remove it. Another taintedatmosphere world is 494-908, which defied the efforts
of Darrian terraformers and is used as a military training
area, including orbital bombardment. Spume also has
a tainted atmosphere; this is compounded by the taint
being radioactive as a result of natural volcanism. The
population live in a sealed mining settlement.

DARRIAN

Darrian is a small world with a standard atmosphere.
Although a little dry, it is entirely habitable by
humans and was chosen by the Ancients as home for
a transplanted population. Why they were moved to
Darrian will probably never be known; the Ancients
disappeared soon afterwards and the Darrians were left
alone to develop on their new world.
According to Darrian legends and archaeological
research, the Darrians lived in a world of gardens
approximating the Terran Eden. It would seem that the
Ancients created an environment for the population that
met all needs and allowed their numbers to grow rapidly
without conflict over resources.
Eventually, whatever Ancient devices ran the gardens
began to fail, although was a gradual process. The
Darrians were forced to spread across their planet and
fend for themselves. Fortunately, Darrian was a very
welcoming world and the transition was not traumatic.
Perhaps as a result of their comfortable environment,
the Darrians developed a great respect for life and
their science was channelled into coexistence with the
environment rather than fighting it for survival. Science
and technology progressed slowly as there was little
need for rapid progress, although the Darrians
developed intellectual gifts in abstract areas like
mathematics and philosophy.

