By –1511, the Darrians had developed a peaceful,
rational society albeit without much in the way of
technology. Everything changed with the arrival of
refugees from Earth, arriving on a fleet of ships built
by the Itzin Corporation, from Turkey on Old Earth
itself. They were fleeing the decline that would lead to
the Long Night and made an epic voyage all the way
to Deneb before turning spinward and entering the
Marches. After surveying Sacnoth, the Itzin fleet chose
Darrian as its final destination.

Curiosity very nearly killed the metaphorical cat when
an experiment on Darrian’s sun Tarnis resulted in the
Maghiz, or Chaos. Darrian itself was burned by the
resulting explosion of star-hot gases and has never
recovered. Most of the population died in the solar
flares, or soon afterward, and the remainder were too
busy trying to survive to preserve much in the way of
technology. The Darrian return to space began in
–275 but on the nearby world of Mire rather than
Darrian itself.

Whatever the new arrivals did next, Darrian and its
people were changed forever. However, to the great
good fortune of the Darrian people, the newcomers
did not make the obvious ‘sky gods’ ploy, nor did
they use their superior technology to dominate or
marginalise the Darrians. Instead, they made a careful
and friendly approach, trading fairly with their new
friends who in turn welcomed the Terrans into Darrian
society. Change was inevitable but the Darrian people
were part of it rather than having it forced upon them.
Within a century, the two cultures had melded into
one. The thoughtful, inquisitive nature of the Darrians
complemented the energetic and, at times, reckless
nature of the newcomers. Working with the technological
base the Terrans had brought with them, the new
Darrian society began a period of explosive growth and
reached TL16 within just 400 years.

Today, Darrian still bears the scars of the Maghiz. There
are extensive ruins of former TL16 cites that attract
tourists and scientists interest from far afield, as do the
remains of what are now normally called ‘orchards’; the
Ancients-built gardens that were home to the original
Darrian civilisation. Trade in artefacts from these sites is
strictly controlled.
Modern Darrian has a population numbering in the
billions with most living on the surface, contrary to
popular images of Darrian as a world of flying cities.
The surface is divided more by mountain ranges than by
seas, creating five great basins that are the equivalent
of continents. In addition, there are indeed four flying
cities, held aloft by gravitic technology. Each has its own
unique characteristics and function but together contain
only a fraction of the world population.

83

