In addition to being the spiritual home of the Darrian
Confederation, this world is also its main technological
centre. The IISS designates it TL16 but this is slightly
misleading. TL16 artefacts are under study and in
some cases duplicated and incorporated into devices
as black-box components but the world does not make
use of TL16 items on a routine basis. Most of the ultrahigh technology available on planet is in the form of
pre-Maghiz artefacts, which are too precious for their
scientific value to be used for practical tasks.
Study of pre-Maghiz items, coupled with the Darrians’
natural aptitude for technology, will undoubtedly result
in technological growth to surpass that of the Imperium
and perhaps even the pre-Maghiz Darrians. However,
despite the government of Darrian being composed
largely of scientists, restrictions are in place and any
potentially hazardous experimentation is very carefully
considered before being implemented. The Darrian
government is famous for its detailed analysis of the
impact of almost every decision on the world and
its people.

DORANNIA

Dorannia is one of a cluster of three worlds lying just off
the Bowman Arm of the Spinward Main and accessible
by jump-2 ships from the main or the central cluster
of the subsector. None of these worlds is especially
important, although Bularia has a reasonable trade in
agricultural produce.
Dorannia is an independent world with a population
numbering somewhat less than a million. It is
administered by a fairly efficient civil service government
that follows established patterns in an unimaginative
way; laws are strict, largely as a consequence of a harsh
environment that can kill the unwary. Mistakes can have
terminal consequences for others, too.
The planet is small, with low surface gravity and a
very thin atmosphere tainted by radioactive dust.
This requires a compressor mask or full air supply
when working outside settlements, along with strict
decontamination procedures within the settlements.
The latter tend not to be large, with towns of a few
thousand being more common than cities. The towns are
each administered by local government, which in turn
answers to the central administration at the capital.
Dorannia has very little water and virtually no food
production outside of colony domes. Most towns have an
area dedicated to food production, which also keeps the
air fresh, but few are self-sufficient. Extra foodstuffs are
brought in from more specialised settlements, which grow
bulk crops in huge environmentally-sealed greenhouses.

Transport between the settlements is by rail or large,
slow transport crawlers. Grav vehicles are expensive and
Dorannia is not a rich world, so the few available tend
to be in the hands of the government or well-off private
owners rather than as commercial transport.
Dorannia has little agriculture, air or water, but what
it does have is fissionables. The world was originally
settled as a mining colony to extract and process
radioactive ores and this is the mainstay of its offworld
business. However, the remote location of the world
makes it a poor choice as a supplier so the mines make
a modest profit but never enough to put Dorannia on the
economic map.
In recent years, a new industry has emerged on Dorannia.
Rather than simply mining and exporting radioactives,
the world’s industrial base now constructs a range of
fission-based power systems, including full-sized nuclear
powerplants suitable to power a large town or major
industrial complex, as well as smaller plants for vehicles
and miniature reactors for small-scale applications.
Nuclear fission is a mature technology on Dorannia,
which uses reactors to power its towns, industrial
centres, railways and even large transport crawlers.
Safety records and reliability are good, although fission
power will never be as safe as fusion, nor can fission
match the output per unit mass of a fusion plant.
Nevertheless, it is a viable alternative for mid-tech
worlds that want a power system maintained with local
resources. Thus far, Dorannia’s products have found a
few buyers and the future seems promising. A recent
campaign run on several worlds invited prospective
buyers to visit ‘Atomic Dorannia’ and showcased a range
of novel nuclear energy applications.
All is not entirely well on Dorannia, however. The
scattered nature of the world’s settlements makes them
ideal targets for planetary raiders. These spaceborne
thugs either raid settlements for whatever they can grab
or else hold them hostage under the guns of their ship,
demanding tribute. On a sealed-environment world
like Dorannia, the consequences of taking fire could
be catastrophic. After a string of raids in 1102-3, one
of which wrecked a starport, the government decided
to do something about the problem. A mercenary unit
comprising an armed merchant ship and associated
personnel was hired, providing protection in the short
term and advising on the creation of planetary defences
for a more permanent solution.
The latter took a form that would simply not be allowed
in the Imperium. Batteries of crude nuclear missiles
were installed near many settlements, guided by
rather basic tracking and fire control equipment. The

