homebuilt missiles are not up to the safety standards
required in the Imperium; although the Imperium
permits nuclear munitions to be owned by world
governments for planetary defence in the event of major
war, there are many volumes of regulations for their safe
storage and circumstances under which they can be
used. Whereas most ship-to-ship missiles, even aboard
warships, are non-nuclear, Dorannia has launched more
nuclear munitions under combat conditions since 1103
than most planetary navies in their entire history. The
fact of the matter is that ‘Atomic Dorannia’ has become
trigger-happy with its new arsenal.
Since Dorannia has no capability to conduct boarding
and search operations in space, the only option is
to use the threat of annihilation. Vessels that seem
even slightly suspect are targeted and told they have
numerous missiles aimed at them. They are permitted
to either sheer off and go somewhere else or otherwise
proceed to land at the port very slowly and carefully.
Several vessels have been fired upon and as the
guidance systems of Dorannia’s missile arsenal are not
the best, accuracy is problematical. The answer is, of
course, to fire large salvoes in the hope of a hit. As a
result, a typical Dorannia PAD (Planetary Aerospace
Defence) missile consists of a large ground-to-orbit
bus section and six independently targeted
short-range missiles, each with a tactical nuclear
warhead. PAD silos are supplemented with smaller
turrets carrying traditional missile racks (again, armed
with nuclear missiles).
A number of vessels have been induced to flee in the
face of this crazily aggressive response and at least one
has been destroyed. It is not possible to tell from an
expanding cloud of radioactive debris and gas whether
the target was actually a raider or simply a merchant
vessel whose bad-tempered captain chose the wrong
frontier world to get stroppy with traffic control. In
any case, word seems to have got round, as the raids
have stopped.

Dorannia PAD Missiles

The Planetary Aerospace Defence missiles used on
Dorannia are classed as torpedo-sized weapons,
similar to the multi-warhead torpedo found in High
Guard (page 32). In theory, they could be fired from
a torpedo launcher on a ship but possess some
drawbacks when compared to traditional torpedoes.
•

•
•

•

The target acquisition systems of Dorannia leave
something to be desired and all attack rolls made
by a PAD missile suffers DM-2 (for a total DM-4
when targeting a ship smaller than 2,000 tons).
The use of a first stage to boost PAD missiles
into orbit mean they cannot target any ship
within Adjacent, Close or Short range.
Most settlements protected by PAD missiles
have 2D silos, each capable of launching a
missile every combat round. Larger settlements
will have two or three times this number.
Each PAD missile carries six warheads that
overwhelm anti-missile defences (DM-2 to all
point defence fire) and multiples the number of
torpedoes in the salvo by 6.

Weapon TL Thrust Damage Cost
Traits
PAD
8 8
6D
Cr400000 Radiation,
Missile
Smart

JUNCTION

Junction lies on the outer edge of the Spinward
Marches, requiring a long transit through neutral space
or a potentially hazardous journey through the Sword
Worlds Confederation for Imperial traders. As a result,
most ships that visit are independent or of Darrian
registry. The system is important to the Darrians as
a jump-off point for expeditions into Foreven,
although there are few reasons to stay rather than
just pass through.
Junction is home to a few thousand farmers and
ranchers who have little interest in the outside universe.
The ‘starport’ is nothing more than a large town with a
landing area and part-time traders, plus a detachment
of Darrian personnel who operate a refuelling and
resupply service for Darrian vessels only. Newcomers
to the world find the locals hospitable enough but
unimpressed by technology or tales of interstellar
adventure. Junction is listed in several interstellar
navigation guides as ‘a little port that could be anywhere
and does a pretty good job of being nowhere’.

88

