The Sword Worlds were settled by a long-range colony
mission from Terra; the Imperium arrived much later
and, as a result, there are deep cultural differences
between the two. Similarly, the Darrians were recovering
from the Maghiz when the Sword Worlders claimed
the region for their own. They thus see themselves as
rightful overlords of the region and tend to deal with
foreign (Darrian or Imperial) ships passing through in a
high-handed and arrogant manner.
The four Metal Worlds (Iron, Bronze, Mithril and Steel)
are ‘reserve worlds’ held in trust by the Sword Worlds
Confederation against future need. Until recently, the
Confederation has vigorously resisted Imperial efforts
to exploit these worlds but that attitude has recently
changed. A theoretically joint project to develop Steel
has been put forward although, in practice, Sword World
involvement is half-hearted at best. Surveying is likely to
begin soon, once the last political issues are resolved.
There are only four Imperial worlds in the subsector:
Flammarion, Caladbolg, Gunn and Caliburn. Flammarion
has a small Imperial Navy station and both Flammarion
and Caladbolg have scout bases to serve the x-boat route
through to the Five Sisters. There is also a small scout
base at Biter serving the same purpose. Biter is part of
the Sword Worlds Confederation and keeping the scout
base in operation has, at times, required
careful negotiation.
Were Steel to be developed, it might be possible to run
the Imperial x-boat service through there, enabling the
scout station at Biter to be closed. This appears to have
been a factor in permitting the Steel Project to
go ahead.

GRAM

Located on the Gram Arm of the Sword Worlds section of
the Spinward Main, Gram is a moderate sized world with
a dense, tainted atmosphere and about 50% coverage
of seas. The world is remarkable in that this 50/50
coverage is almost perfect; there is one giant ocean and
one supercontinent, although there are a number of
small inland seas here and there.
Gram was the first of the Sword Worlds to be settled.
The world was sufficiently habitable to allow the
colonists to establish a home and then spread to what
became the other Sword Worlds as their numbers
grew. For this reason, the people of Gram have
always considered themselves the best of the Sword
Worlders and, of course, the rightful leaders of the
Confederation. Gram has now held on to power in the
Sword Worlds since 852, a remarkable achievement
in such a turbulent political environment. Somewhat

over a century ago, the administrative apparatus of the
Confederation was moved to a purpose-built city located
on the far side of the planet from Gram’s own capital.
It is a heavily populated and industrialised world
whose aristocracy are the owners of major industrial
and commercial companies. Some are businessmen or
captains of industry, others simply the heads of families
that own businesses and pay staff to run them, then
able to pursue other interests or a career in the military.
The popular image of the typical Sword Worlder is one of
a rugged freeholder with rifles over the fireplace, working
his land during the day and swapping tall tales with his
neighbours over strong drinks in the evening. On Gram,
this is far from the truth. Most of the population live in
large cities and work either in industry or the services
that support it. There are also many legal restrictions,
in part made necessary by having such a large urban
population; Gram’s billions are governed by a high Law
Level that prohibits private ownership of firearms. This
would be unthinkable to the rugged frontiersman of
Sword World ideals but is a fact of life on Gram.
One of Gram’s most important industries is shipbuilding,
especially for the navies of the Confederation. Sword
World ships are of a lower Tech Level than those of
the Imperium and not capable of far jumps. Since it is
possible to reach almost any point in the Sword Worlds
along the main, vessels intended for primarily defensive
operations are normally only capable of jump-1,
allowing them to redeploy under their own power but not
surrendering space to large fuel tanks and drive systems.
Warships intended for offensive operations are built with
higher jump capabilities for greater strategic mobility.
What both types have in common is a blocky and
extremely tough design, with multiple-redundant
systems to allow them to soak up massive punishment
without being forced to withdraw. This suits Sword World
commanders, among whom an unwarranted retreat is
grounds for disgrace, and damage to a ship a badge of
honour. Indeed, it has been said that the ideal naval
engagement from the point of view of a Sword World
captain is one where his ship is shot to ribbons and
at least one of his peers breaks off action with a less
damaged ship.
Sword World ground combat equipment is
manufactured along similar lines and Gram is a major
supplier to the rest of the Confederation. Combat
vehicles are tough and well-armed but lacking in sensors
and electronic equipment.
Despite a certain amount of pride at being the capital of
the Confederation, first of the Sword Worlds, and source

91

