of much of the Confederation’s military equipment, there
is considerable disaffection among the workers of Gram.
The cities are grim and there are few opportunities
for personal advancement. Some of the mid-level
aristocracy have begun to champion these disaffected
groups; in some cases out of genuine concern but others
are doing it as a placebo, knowing that nothing will
change, as they use workers as footsoldiers in their own
political battles.
At present there have been few serious incidents, but
crime and violence are on the rise in the poorer sections
of the cities and there have been short strikes by workers.
These are normally accompanied by loud protestations by
the workers of their loyalty to Gram and the Sword Worlds,
and are surprisingly good-natured as well.
In one factory, for example, the workers downed tools
late in the afternoon shift once a week, like clockwork.
They then marched outside where they made a
statement to the press and steadfastly refused to return
to work for the remainder of the day. The police sent a
patrol as a token presence but there was no trouble. A
representative of the management turned up to explain
yet again that the issue was being addressed but
concessions were not possible at the time. The strikers
promised to continue their protest until their grievances
were dealt with. This was accepted by both workers and
owners as a necessary safety valve for disaffection both
valid and unavoidable.
Not everyone is so good-natured, however. There have
been all-but-revolutions in some plants, sabotage
in others and attempts on the lives of members of
the aristocracy. Rioting has erupted in some cities,
although this is rare. It seems that unless conditions
for the typical Gram citizen improve then the situation
will continue to worsen – and creating a better life for
billions would be hugely expensive if at all possible.

GUNN

Gunn lies on a segment of the Spinward Main that has
few good ports or major economies, and consequently
sees little interstellar traffic. This region is sometimes
termed The Slice, in a convoluted reference to the fact
that proximity to the Sword Worlds inhibits trade and
development in the region.
Gunn itself is primarily a mining colony, with a few
dozen permanent residents and somewhat larger number
of transient prospectors, miners and mineralogists.
Gunn is lacking in iron compared to most other
worlds but makes up for it with other metals – notably
copper, lead and tin. Various Imperial corporations and
megacorproations have investigated the possibility of
opening a major mining centre at Gunn but the
difficulty of reliably transporting ore back to industrial
worlds has proved an obstacle. Gunn remains the
province of the freelance prospecting team or small
mineral extraction company.

HRUNTING

Hrunting lies at a junction on the coreward arm of the
Sword Worlds main, which is astrographically part of the
Spinward Main but generally considered to be more or
less separate due to local political conditions. Its port
sees considerable traffic headed out into Querion and
Vilis, and the naval base supports cross-border patrols
into neutral space, typically by vessels optimised for a
long cruise. It has been suggested that many of these
ships would be well suited to commerce raiding in
Imperial space to coreward-trailing but the Sword Worlds
Confederation has never commented on the subject.
Hrunting has a standard atmosphere, despite fairly
low surface gravity, and possesses little surface
water, largely due to ‘superflare’ activity on the part
of Hrunting’s red dwarf primary. The star flares from
time-to-time causing no ill effects but on a cycle of 1015,000 years it produces superflares. The last caused
much of Hrunting’s water to evaporate and be lost to
space – a higher gravity world would not have suffered
such a severe loss. As a result, Hrunting’s seas are small
and surrounded by extensive mineral flats that make
agriculture difficult. Away from the seas, much of the
surface is arid.
The majority of the population dwell in small
communities close to the seas, with a few modest sized
cities acting as trade hubs and transportation centres.
There is little native life on land and few imported

