species have taken to the mineral-rich environment
left behind by the evaporating oceans. The seas have
a reasonable biosphere but Hrunting is a young world
without many complex creatures. One exception is the
group of species known as Stone Trees, which resemble
trees or bushes but are in fact a mollusc-like creature
with a bark-like outer shell. The Stone Trees favour a
mineral-rich environment and thrive along the shores of
the shrinking seas. Some can be eaten – indeed, certain
species are considered delicacies – but others are toxic
to humans.

JOYEUSE

Named for the legendary sword of Charlemagne, which
changed colour 30 times a day, Joyeuse has a standard
atmosphere and 40% hydrographics. At first glance it
might seem a good prospect for colonisation but the
numbers are deceptive. Joyeuse rotates slowly and has
a year just 12 of its days long. As a result, it suffers
extremes of heat and cold, with 12 days of darkness
followed by 12 days of constant sunlight. Combined with
a variety of fungal blights that cripple flowering plants
of most species, this makes conventional agriculture
difficult. In addition to producing a number of fungal
foodstuffs, Joyeuse has an extensive ranching industry
adapted to local conditions.
The 40 million or so inhabitants are dispersed in small
to modest-sized towns, with few major population
centres and therefore little in the way of economic or
industrial efficiency. The largest city is Tholasborg, with
a population of around 250,000. Despite this, Joyeuse
manages to maintain a heavily decentralised TL10
industrial base, with the capability to build military
starships and field an effective ground force.
The planetary navy of Joyeuse is based at Thoslinn, the
next planet out from Joyeuse. Thoslinn is also the main
naval base for the Sword Worlds Confederation as a
whole, although the size of forces based there depends
on internal and external politics. The base has extensive
training facilities, including a collection of non-Sword
Worlds vessels maintained ostensibly for familiarisation
purposes. It has been suggested that these vessels
might also be used to train personnel to hijack or
attack them, or even act as a Trojan horse in covert
intelligence-gathering operations.

MITHRIL

Mithril is one of the four Metal Worlds claimed by the
Sword Worlds Confederation but not yet developed or
colonised. The world is very suitable in most ways for

96

colonisation - it has a standard atmosphere and about
80% ocean coverage. However, Mithril is more than a
little cold.
Much of Mithril’s ocean surface is either frozen or prone
to drifting ice and the land is swept by harsh winds and
often blanketed by ice and snow. While this would not
pose too much of a problem to high-technology settlers,
it makes agriculture problematic and raises the cost of
creating a viable colony.
Mithril lies on the Spinward Main and while vessels
capable of jump-2 or more tend to bypass the system,
some ships must come through. Those that can skim
fuel from a gas giant and move on without visiting
the world. A patrol vessel from the Confederation is
sometimes stationed in the system and may challenge
vessels passing through but, on the whole, Sword
Worlders will not interfere with the navigational rights of
passing vessels.
Vessels not equipped for fuel skimming must obtain
their fuel from the planet, usually by landing in a remote
area and running hoses to a source of water or landing
in water and simply drawing it into the tanks. The
Confederation does not appreciate this practice but has
never done anything about it; ships landing on the world
to refuel are technically violating Sword World sovereign
territory but so long as Imperial vessels just refuel and
leave, the Sword Worlders are not sufficiently outraged
to confront the Imperium.
Relatively few ships land at the Class E port, which is
little more than a marked landing area with beacons
and a cluster of huts nearby. Outsiders are not welcome
at the port. Fuel and resupply are not available for
passing vessels, although Sword World vessels on official
business are a different matter and Sword Worldsregistered merchant ships might be more
warmly received.
Although the population of Mithril is officially rated as
zero as there is no permanent population, a handful of
Sword Worlders operate the tiny port. This is one of the
loneliest jobs in Charted Space - to be stationed with
just a couple of companions on a planet several weeks
from assistance if disaster strikes.
This tiny presence serves to support the Confederation’s
claim to ownership of the world, necessary for political
reasons but not a pleasant posting. Few of the personnel
deployed to Mithril Starport have ever ventured into the
arctic wilderness surrounding the base as there is no

