once had the largest deposit of copper on record but
this has been played out and few new deposits are being
found. As a result, the system’s mining-based economy
is in decline.

administration, yet in practice the world government
controls only the region around the capital and what
passes for a starport, not much more than a few low
concrete bunkers beside a flattened landing area.

Ianic has a sizable minority of Jonkeereen (about 30%)
among its population, humans genetically engineered to
thrive in desert environments. They generally live apart
from the world’s other humans but get along well enough
with them.

Fuel is not available at the port, as such, but water
can be obtained from the saltwater lake nearby and
processed to make liquid hydrogen. A hefty Cr250
landing fee is levied at the port, payable whether or not
ships take on water, as the locals view water as one of
their world’s most precious resources and tax all visitors
to offset the loss.

Less harmonious is Quiru, where a recent coup using
mercenary forces toppled the government and put a
military junta in its place. As yet there has been no
official Imperial response.

GANDR

Gandr was almost a boom town system as a result of the
discovery of large deposits of superheavy elements in
an asteroid cluster deep in the system’s main belt. This
sparked heavy investment and a rush of prospectors but
the find was not repeated. The concentration found at
Gandr has never been explained and while many mining
firms tried to make a go of it, the belt proved too sparse
in other minerals to be worth exploiting. One-by-one the
firms packed up, leaving behind a ramshackle mess of
infrastructure that expanded too fast then was stripped
for what could be quickly sold off. Today, Gandr is a
byword for disappointment and economic unviability,
although there are still some small-scale operations
managing to turn a small profit.

IANIC

Ianic is on the Spinward Main, though it is not a world
of any great importance, just somewhere vessels pass
through on voyages. The world is a small dustball
almost entirely devoid of surface water but it has a
standard atmosphere.
Like most desert worlds, Ianic is not an endless sea of
dunes; in between are mountains, rocky badlands and
areas of semi-desert where there is just enough water to
support life. There are even a couple of very small seas,
which would be lakes on any other world. Oases are not
uncommon where underground water reserves well up
close to the surface.
Overall, much of Ianic is not habitable without starshipgrade recycling and imports of fresh water and food.
However, the world supports a population numbering in
the millions. There are a few large groupings but most
of the population are spread out across the surface in
small towns supported by deep wells or the few natural
watercourses. Government is officially by a bureaucratic
system descended from the original colonial

100

About 30% of the population are Jonkeereen, living
separately to the mainstream humans for the most
part. Jonkeereen were originally adapted from humans
to colonise the world of Jonkeer in Deneb and have
spread to many other worlds, to be encountered
across the Imperium. Those Jonkeereen whose home
regions lie close to the capital are governed from there.
The remainder, like many of the mainstream human
settlements, are too far away for effective governance
and go their own way.
There is little friction between Jonkeereen groups and
other humans, although there is little integration either.
Both have different ways of doing things and a tendency
to ignore one another. Ianic is big enough for everyone,
even if most of its land is uninhabitable.
Observers have occasionally expressed puzzlement that
Ianic, a mid-tech world with a Class E starport, has
its own spur of the x-boat network. Although there is
officially no scout base present in the system, Ianic is
used for two important and related purposes by the IISS.
The Ianic system is used as a storage point for x-boats
and supporting tenders not in current service, plus a
number of couriers with various capabilities. There are
several reasons for this; one is simply to have extra boats
and tenders ready to feed into the network when needed
but, more importantly, there are a number of emergency/
urgent message protocols in place. A single courier,
most likely from the naval base at Adabicci or Lunion
itself, arriving in the Ianic system can trigger what
some scouts refer to as the Ianic Panic, sending x-boats
and fast couriers off in all directions with the message
aboard. This is normally used for great emergencies,
such as the outbreak of the Fourth Frontier War.
This large collection of communications and support
ships is not based on Ianic itself but orbits one of the
system’s gas giants, with a central station coordinating
all approaches and departures as well as acting as an
accommodation centre. The scouts have little to do with
Ianic proper, although sometimes personnel conduct
desert-survival training on the surface.

