Creating Jonkeereen Travellers

Physically, Jonkeereen are not very different to
baseline humans. They were adapted about 400
years ago and have bred true ever since. Tall,
lean and dark-skinned, they resemble naturally
evolved desert dwellers. Their perspiration system
is extremely efficient and they have membranes to
protect their eyes from wind-borne sand or dust.
Jonkeereen society varies somewhat across the
many worlds where they dwell, however the basic
traits are conservatism and cooperation. Their
ways are austere and pragmatic in the extreme
and this concern with survival can make them
seem harsh or even heartless, especially towards
outsiders. They are more likely to help others of
their own kind than outsiders, if only because
fellow Jonkeereen are less likely to get everyone
killed by doing something stupid.

Characteristics

Jonkeereen Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: END+1, EDU-1

Traits

Jonkeereen Travellers all possess the following
traits:
Heat Resistant (-2): Jonkeereen have extremely
efficient perspiration systems. They suffer two
points less damage from extremes of temperature
in their environment.

Careers

All careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook are
all suitable for Jonkeereen.

SPIRELLE

A prosperous mid-tech world located on the Spinward
Main, Spirelle is well designated as a rich system. There is
plenty of water, a standard atmosphere and an environment
hospitable to humans. The population expanded steadily
after the world was initially colonised and now there are
several hundred million people on Spirelle.
The populace is spread across the globe, mostly around
coastal regions. Sea and river transport is the main way
to move goods and people between the cities; although
road and air links are well serviced, water transportation
is cheap, which makes it attractive for non-urgent goods.

Spirelle exports large quantities of TL8 goods to nearby
worlds and much of the world’s industry is geared to
the export market, producing rugged items that are
easy to maintain with limited facilities. Produce
aimed at the local market tends to be more complex
and sophisticated.
There is a good starport, with government-licensed
traders handling most negotiations for private cargoes.
The starport is, not surprisingly, co-located with the
world’s largest seaport, with huge container ships
delivering cargoes from all around Spirelle for export.
These are often shipped in standard (interstellar)
shipping containers, which can be handled by normal
starship-loading equipment and carried aboard freight
vessels with no need to unload or repackage.
Another important export is bulk seafood and related
products. Extensive fishing fleets and sea-farming
techniques produce a great deal of food. Some goes into
the local diet but a sizable amount is processed and
shipped out for export. Live fish and seafood are also
exported, although this requires careful handling and
makes the produce expensive to the end purchaser.
With so much of the population living along coasts or
on islands, inland areas tend to be sparsely populated.
Spirelle has been settled for centuries, so there are
few areas truly uncharted and most localities have a
few scattered villages. However, there is wilderness
throughout the continents, with mountains, rain forests
and tundra covering much of the interior, making it
useless to the world’s inhabitants.
The Scout Service has a base on Spirelle, mainly
existing as a training establishment and making use of
the extensive wilderness to conduct survival training
as well as navigational and problem-solving exercises.
There are also areas leased as large-scale free-fire zones,
used to train weapons skills.
Although the Scout Service is not one of the Imperial
armed forces, scouts often have to defend themselves
and most personnel can handle weapons with at least
a basic level of proficiency. The training areas are
used for basic and refresher courses for a broad crosssection of personnel and the scene of much more
advanced training.
The Scout Service also maintains a security arm to
protect its bases and personnel. Normally, these
teams simply act as guards, however some are trained
in hostage-rescue and object retrieval. The latter is
a catch-all term used from getting a valuable alien
artefact back from thieves to storming a hijacked Scout
Service vessel.

101

