Within the leased areas are mock-ups of various
Scout Service vessels and other common starships,
most with internal gravity equipment so they can be
stormed in a range of conditions from zero-gravity to a
‘shirtsleeves’ environment.
The scout base is located in a remote area, with
mountains restricting access from some directions. It
has its own port, which is not available for non-official
vessels to use. There is a sizable community at the base
and a small presence is also maintained at the main
Spirelle starport for liaison and recruiting.
Spirelle is, to a great extent, the sort of world the
Imperium was formed to support and protect. It is
home to large numbers of people who contribute to the
Imperial economy as both producers and importers of
goods, and may eventually develop into a major world.
In the meantime, Spirelle lacks the high-technology
industrial base to construct an effective system defence
fleet. While a few imported system defence boats can
make a huge difference, a world of this kind cannot truly
protect itself from large-scale interstellar threats and
must rely on the Imperial Navy.

WARDN

Wardn is, in many ways, a typical frontier world of the
Imperium. Its atmosphere is a little thin, but entirely
breathable, and with plenty of water the world could
be a major agricultural centre. However, its location on

102

the fringe of Imperial space has resulted in a lack of
investment and immigration, resulting in a population
that has remained stable at around 50,000 for many
decades. Most live in a single city adjacent to the
downport, with a ring of outlying settlements tailing off
into wilderness.
Wardn is famous for its Patterned Desert, to the point
where many offworlders assume the planet is a vast
arid wasteland but this is far from the truth. Most areas
are well-watered and home to a variety of wildlife, with
extensive forests and grasslands. The Patterned Desert
itself is the subject of great speculation, with some
believing its intricate patterns have intentional design
and were created by an intelligent species. Others are
adamant that the patterns are nothing more than traces
left behind by primitive anaerobic life.
The scout base at Wardn maintains a study detachment
at the Patterned Desert, which hosts a regular rotation
of scientists from various universities and institutes.
Other expeditions have been set up on Wardn and
scouts occasionally have to rescue amateur scientists
who have no idea how hazardous a desert can be.
The scout base also launches frequent missions into
District 268 and is widely supposed to be engaged in
covert surveillance of the Sword Worlds Confederation.
The Imperial authorities issue only vaguely worded
statements about monitoring merchant traffic crossing
the border and gathering data on shipping using the
local ports, which could mean almost anything.

