MORA

Mora is, both historically and astrographically, the
Gateway to the Marches. It is now one of the richest
worlds for many parsecs and extremely important to
local politics, despite the fact that technically Duchess
Delphine of Mora wields no more power and has no
more responsibilities than any other subsector Duke
in the Marches.
Mora is a large world with a dense, tainted atmosphere,
almost entirely covered in oceans with only a few large
islands and smaller archipelagos breaking the surface.
Nevertheless, Mora was the first world of the Marches
to be settled by the Imperium and received far more
investment than other colonies; starting in 60, Mora was
developed as a trading centre financed by Ling Standard
Products. This required a good starport, which led to
the creation of yards to overhaul trade and exploration
vessels. Soon afterward, full-scale shipbuilding began.
As early explorers pushed into the sector, Mora was
the interface point where goods were marshalled for
shipping back into the Imperium and settlement
missions made preparations for the final leg of their
journeys. It was through Mora that goods from the Sword
Worlds, the Darrian Confederation and even the Zhodani
Consulate came.
Eventually, Trin became important as a secondary route
into the Marches but for many decades everything and
everyone came through Mora. Some colonists never
went any further, choosing to settle on Mora rather than
advance into unexplored territory. The world’s
population grew rapidly and, with it, the amount of
industry it could support.
Today, Mora has a population numbering tens of billions,
dwelling in gigantic mega-cities that cover much of the
available land mass as well as surrounding seabed. The
upper regions of these cities project high above the
surface of the seas, each crested with a spaceport. Most
cities lie on or close to the equator and have spread
so much that they run into one another, creating a
single city circling the entire equator. Smaller cities are
separated from the main belt by oceanic trenches.
Most of the little dry land that remains is given over to
high-technology intensive agriculture, with additional
food production provided by seabed farming. There
are, however, a few exceptions. One is Mora’s massive
downport, which takes up most of an equatorial island.
Another is the World Park, a large nature reserve, and
there is also an island reserved as a private estate for
the high officials of the world government.

106

Mora’s system of government is unusual, in that
Duchess Delphine is not just the world’s official
representative but also the head of Mora’s government.
In practice, the duchess delegates her role of
representative to the Imperium to a deputy, except when
she feels personal intervention is necessary. All senior
governmental positions are held by women and Mora is
legally a matriarchy. Males are not enslaved on Mora,
merely not permitted to hold high office.
Mora has no police force or other civilian emergency
services, as all such tasks are undertaken by the armed
forces. One particularly important branch is concerned
with orbital traffic control and vessel tracking; local
space is very crowded and keeping traffic flowing
is a full-time job for a great many people. There is
so much traffic around Mora Imperial Highport that
a secondary highport has been constructed for use
by those with permission, including vessels of the
Imperial Navy and sector administration, but primarily
megacorporate starships belonging to Delgado, Tukera
and Imperiallines, who jointly funded the venture.
These vessels receive heavily discounted services and
a streamlined customs system. The port is secured
by mercenary troops and patrol craft supplied by
Instellarms, which has a large commercial presence
there. The volume of traffic is still so high that there
is talk of building a third port to serve government and
sector administration vessels.
The world is highly industrialised, with a very high Tech
Level. This makes it one of the most important economic
players not just in the Marches but also in Deneb, where
a significant proportion of Mora’s goods are sold.
High-technology industry is supported by the Mora
Technical Institute, which performs cutting-edge
research into gravitics, electronics and manufacturing,
as well as training graduates. MTI is somewhat
overshadowed by the Imperial Mora University, which
deals more in history, political studies and similar fields,
and the social status associated with being a graduate
of IMU is higher than MTI. It is said, not without reason,
that technical institute graduates can expect a good,
well-paid career working in firms owned by the families
of IMU attendees.
The remainder of the Mora system is heavily exploited.
There are mining outposts throughout the planetoid
belt and the moons of both gas giants are also heavily
mined, with scientific installations scattered here and
there. The belt is also the site of major biotechnology
industries, conducting both research and production.

