The system’s scout and naval bases, located on large
planetoids in the belt, are both huge. The scout base is
the IISS regional headquarters for the Spinward Marches
and marshals a huge communications fleet in addition
to a flotilla of scout/couriers, express boat tenders and
survey vessels for tasks across the sector. The naval
base is headquarters for the sector and subsector
fleets, although the sector admiral resides on Mora and
commands from there. The Mora system is home to
several heavy battle and cruiser squadrons of the
Sector Fleet and the naval base has more capital
ships in reserve.

A handful of cutters and shuttles serve the tenders that
support x-boats passing through the system and there is
an extensive communications suite. In all, there are no
more than 200 Scout Service personnel in the system at
any one time.

If another frontier war erupts, it is from Mora that the
fleet will sally out to defend the Marches and from here
the war will be directed. If the worst comes to pass,
it might be that Mora becomes the last bastion of
the Imperium in the Marches; certainly, it would be
held with great determination. Were Mora to be lost,
the Marches would either have already fallen or
defeat would be inevitable. Unsurprisingly, Mora’s
system defence squadron is one of the most powerful
in the Imperium.

This dependence on the port for income has crippled
growth of Nexine’s own economy. A disproportionate
percentage of the world’s population is employed in service
industries around the port, leaving too few to develop other
sectors. Were this source of income to dry up, Nexine’s
economy would almost certainly crash, a situation is all
too common on worlds with a low population. What Nexine
needs more than anything else is more people. There
have been attempts to attract immigrants using schemes
ranging from generous land grants to refugee-relocation
projects but nothing has worked. The current idea is to
see if genetically engineered humans could be seeded on
Nexine, making use of the oceans that make up 99% of
the world’s surface.

NEXINE

Nexine is a large world, almost entirely covered by
oceans. The atmosphere is of a standard composition
and density but its taint makes the use of a filter mask
necessary. The world is part of the Palique Cluster, on
both the coreward x-boat route form Mora and also the
jump-2 route into Trin’s Veil and ultimately Glisten.
Several attempts have been made to settle Nexine
at various times, usually without success. A small
population, numbering in the tens of thousands, dwells
in far-flung communities, all of them small, on islands
across the globe. The island-towns are broadly selfsufficient, each with its own agricultural base, light
industries and fisheries to maintain equipment in local
use and feed the people. The overall TL8 rests on
industry at the cottage level and is insufficient to export
significant goods.
There are a few larger settlements, notably the capital
which is co-located with the starport and scout base.
Even here, the population is not large enough to
support heavy industry and it is the scout base that is
the mainstay of Nexine’s economy. The Scout Service
contracts with local businesses for everything from
food supplies to cleaning services, as does the starport.
However, the scout base is small, consisting of a fencedoff corner of the starport leased by the Scout Service.

Trade ships come through Nexine but the world’s tiny
economy cannot support buying and selling, nor produce
enough of anything to be worth freighting, so the port
makes only a little money from berthing fees, rations
and the like. Crews spend a significant amount of money
in the capital’s bars, restaurants and shops.

As yet, the project consists of little more than a few
scientific teams, researching a wide range of important
factors, from mineral content in the oceans to current
conditions, with extensive seabed mapping also
underway to locate suitable regions for an aquatic or
semi-aquatic population to be settled in.
Some Imperial scientists working in Nexine’s oceans
are Dolphins, uplifted to sentience long ago and now
a species apart from their lesser cousins. Their unique
insight into the aquatic conditions of Nexine will likely
prove invaluable to the project.
There are several scientific outposts in various corners
of the world and information-gathering drones have
been dropped into the seas in great numbers. The main
scientific base is a large installation with a crew of about
100 technicians, scientists and support workers, from
which research submarines of various sizes depart on
their cruises. Deep-diving subs have also been deployed
to Nexine and have begun penetrating the deep
ocean trenches and exploring the abyssal plains. This
represents a significant investment in money as well
as effort, so presumably there is a real chance that the
project will go ahead at some point in the future.

107

