T H E

S P E C I A L I S T

C O L L E C T I O N

PALIQUE ENVIRONMENTAL
SYSTEMS PRODUCTS

2

Palique is renowned for the high quality of its vacc suits and environmental protection equipment. All are manufactured
at TL14 and have a reputation for reliability and comfort that extends far beyond the sector. Of course, this is reflected
in the price tag.
A02/56376

PALIQUE TAILORED VACC SUIT

A standard lightweight suit worn as crew uniform by some personnel, the tailored vacc suit
is little more cumbersome than a set of heavy duty clothes. Armour and radiation protection
is not as good as a bulkier suit but the main garment can be worn constantly without fatigue.
Suits come with a set of undergloves’ and a soft bubble headcovering that are adequate,
although most users purchase the accessory kit and use it when they need real protection.
The suit contains a highly oxygenated gel trapped between layers of cloth around
the collar area, which is combined with carbon dioxide scrubbing materials. This
creates an integral air supply/rebreather system that can sustain a wearer for an hour
under normal exertion without discomfort and about five times as long in gradually
increasing distress. All Palique suits use this system, giving the wearer a last chance
to reach safety if other systems fail or the opportunity to operate without a life
support pack. The collar system is activated by pulling a tab and must be replaced
after use. This is a fiddly but not complex process, although most users prefer to
avoid it by using accessories.
A tailored vacc suit can be used by anyone who has had the most cursory instruction
– it is little more than a set of clothes with glove seals and a bubble helmet. It is not
recommended that unskilled personnel do anything more complex than sit at their consoles
while wearing a vacc suit, however.
Armour Type
Palique Tailored Vacc Suit

A01/75324

Protection
+6

TL
14

Rad
75

Kg
2

Cost
Cr35000

Required Skill
None

PALIQUE ACCESSORY PACK

The accessory pack contains a solid helmet and semi-rigid torso piece, which
drops over the suit and provides additional armour protection, although this is
intended to protect against micrometeorites. There is also a belt that can be
worn with or without the torso piece. Its pockets contain over-gloves and
safety tethers, a battery-powered lamp and a one-hour air bottle plus two
emergency disposable gas thruster units that allow a stranded spacefarer
to return to their ship. The suit can be fed with power and air from an
external source – a feed is normally found at all starship crew duty stations
– or run off the belt batteries and air bottle. For extended operations, the
manufacturer recommends the use of the torso unit, which contains an eighthour air supply and sufficient oxygenated/rebreather gel to keep the wearer
alive for twice that long after the air runs out.
Armour Type
Accessory Pack

Protection
+6

TL
14

Rad Kg Cost
+25 +2 Cr8000

Required Skill
None

