DESCRIPTION
The Deep Ranger-class is an extremely wellequipped vessel intended for long duration deepdiving in water or other non-corrosive fluids. Its
underwater displacement is around 1500 tons;
not large for a maritime vessel but sizeable for a
civilian submarine (note that water displacement
is not the same as starship displacement,
which is determined by displacement of liquid
hydrogen rather than water).
This submarine can safely descend to depths of
16km, far more than needed on most worlds,
and can stay underwater for as long as food
stocks last. It is extremely cramped, however,
as almost all available space is taken up with
equipment or controls The submarine has a
nominal crew complement of 10, although most
vessels operate with 3-5 personnel on board.
This makes it possible to remove some of the
bunks and reconfigure spaces to give the crew a
little breathing room.
By far the most spacious part of the submarine
is its laboratory suite, which consists of a main
hydrographics lab and four configurable research
spaces. Most external work is done with a mix

of heavy and fine-work manipulator arms or
sensors mounted on extendable masts pushed
into seabed silt. There are airlocks for divers but
these can only be used in shallow water unless
robotic craft are launched. The research suite
also contains holding tanks, of which nearly half
can be refrigerated and a cryoberth unit normally
used to freeze samples.
The vessel’s fusion power plant allows extremely
long duration operations and is complemented
by a water-jet system linked to hydrographic
sampling equipment. High powered water jet
thrusters allow rapid emergency movement
away from a hazard or station-keeping in strong
currents, and there is an auxiliary crawler system
on the ventral surfaced of the submersible to
permit movement on the seabed.
Although all submarines come equipped with
life support and hostile environment capability,
the Deep Ranger takes this to an extreme and
has a multiply redundant backup system. In
dire emergenies, the main control cabin can be
sealed and ejected, returning to the surface by
means of slight positive buoyancy.

