unusual in having capital ships permanently assigned
to it, more likely to do with the interdiction of Andor
and Candory than protection of the few Imperial assets
in the region, although why battleships are needed to
enforce a Red Zone remains a mystery. Droyne ships are
not normally stopped – the Red Zone seems to be there
to keep people out of Andor and Candory, not keep the
Droyne in.

only rimward of the Marches and hardly a void. The term
was first coined in an entertainment show and seems to
have stuck. In any case, travel ‘outrim’ into Menorial via
Five Sisters is discouraged by the authorities. Despite
this, exploratory trade missions occasionally crawl along
the Spinward Main all the way to Five Sisters and then
head out into the relative unknown in search of new
markets and a hoped-for big score.

The 208th Fleet has its headquarters at Iderati, the
subsector capital, plus six other bases in a ring around
Andor and Candory. These are home to patrol ships and
vessels that enforce the interdiction within the Red Zone
systems and also heavier non-jump capable defence
squadrons. These are deployed widely and may be in
place to catch vessels trying to slip through to Droyne
worlds. The fact that the base systems are Amber Zoned
helps to deter visitors, however it seems to have more to
do with the danger of intruding into a heavily defended
system than anything else.

FROIN

Andor and Candory, as already noted, are both Red
Zones and Droyne worlds. As well as the base systems
surrounding the interdicted area, there are three other
Amber Zones in place at Jinx, Lakou and 875-496. Of
these, only Lakou is an Imperial member. It seems likely
that the Imperial Research Station at Froin (designated
Research Station Zeta) is involved with research
connected to the Droyne but, as usual, the authorities
refuse to comment.
There are 10 non-Imperial worlds in the subsector,
not counting those of the Droyne. Most are located to
rimward of the Imperial zone, in the direction of what
some Imperials call the Outrim Void, despite it being

114

Froin is an essentially insignificant world, except
that it is the site of Imperial Research Station Zeta.
The permanent population of the planet is housed
almost exclusively in a small town surrounding the
starport, which sees a little through traffic headed out
to spinward-coreward. Most residents work in support
industries for the port, which also employs a couple of
hundred non-resident personnel at any given time. The
research installation is located 100 or so kilometres
away; a short hop by shuttle or starship but enough
to prevent casual intrusions. A ship approaching the
station would be sufficiently off course that its crew
could not claim an honest mistake and, since the area
around the research station is restricted to authorised
vessels only, such an intruder would risk being fired
upon by the installation’s defences. This has happened
from time-to-time, although there are no records of
anything but warning shots.
Exactly what goes on at the research station is not
common knowledge but it is guarded by a detachment of
Imperial Marines and ringed with missile launchers dug
into the bedrock. Navy ships routinely call there; usually
auxiliaries but occasionally a heavily escorted transport.

