Imperial businesses are active in District 268, although
McClellan Factors is engaged in actively squeezing
out its rivals, sailing close to the wind with some of
its tactics. The Imperial worlds of Mertactor and Mille
Falcs are used as a regional base for Imperial firms
trading into the subsector and administered from the
neighbouring Glisten subsector.
There is no subsector fleet, as such, for District 268
but patrols are maintained from the Five Sisters into
the spinward side of the district and from Glisten into
trailing. In addition, a small force of patrol vessels is
based out of Mille Falcs. This is officially a detachment
of the Glisten force but operates independently and
comprises a handful of patrol vessels and escorts,
backed up by a couple of old destroyers.
Probably the most important non-Imperial world in
District 268 is Collace, a high-tech industrial world
with pro-Imperial leanings and a strong contender for
the role of subsector capital if and when the district
is absorbed. However, many worlds want nothing of
the Imperium and are passively resistant to Imperial
expansion. Among them is Trexalon, which has been
involved in a cold war with Collace for many years.
The government of Trexalon and the Trexalon Technical
Consortium (TTC) it leads knows the Imperium will not
tolerate armed resistance and can bring vast forces to
bear if they start attacking Imperial facilities and ships.
Resistance is thus below the level that will trigger
an Imperial response. There are, however, rumours
that the TTC is behind a number of insurrections and
similar problems on pro-Imperial worlds.
The world of Nirton is a Red Zone and there are three
Amber Zones in the subsector. Pavabid is one of these,
where the world government is a theocracy that follows
the Pavabidian Heresy (as it is called elsewhere) of the
Church of Stellar Divinity. Like other branches of the
church, the Pavabidian version believes that stars are
holy but maintains that all stars other than Pavabid’s
are evil. Offworlders are from enemy stars and highly
suspect. The world is governed from a flying palace that
the locals, kept in a state of mid-tech ignorance, are
told is kept aloft by divine favour. In fact, it was built on
Glisten and uses gravitic technology.
Bowman is the site of one of the largest planetoid fields
in existence, which covers five orbital paths rather
than one. The system has only one planet, a gas giant
known as Bowman Prime, whose moons are inhabited,
as are sections of the vast Bowman Belt. Most of
the prospecting and mining in Bowman is done by
independents and small firms but LSP has a large facility

in-system and occasionally expands its operation, to the
annoyance of locals who feel they are being edged out.

BOWMAN

Bowman’s asteroid belt presents something of a
classification problem, simply because it is so huge.
The Bowman Belt does not just fill the usual one orbital
path that most belts do, but several. There are separate
zones within the belt and there has been some debate
as to whether these are actually several separate belts,
in which case Bowman has an asteroid belt and several
planetoid belts, or whether it is all one asteroid belt.
To the people who live and work here, the point is moot.
There is one belt and they live and work in one part of
it. Distant regions of the belt are of no real importance
because they are very far away.
In addition to the system’s star and the vast Bowman
Belt there is one planet, a gas giant named Bowman
Prime and its gaggle of moons. Clusters of planetoids
are found at Bowman Prime’s Trojan points (ahead of
and behind it in orbit).
The Bowman system is unusual in other ways.
Normally, the starport is located on the mainworld
but Bowman’s port is actually on Alpha, the innermost
moon of Bowman Prime, along with a scout base. This
is a very small installation that operates a few ships on
missions in local systems, as well as Bowman itself.
These are often of the ‘rock plotting’ sort, necessary
for the maintenance of accurate charts but boring
and unglamorous.
The population, numbering around 8,500, refer to
themselves as Belters. There is no governmental
structure in the Bowman Belt, nor any real body of
law. The Belters live in small communities or family
groups and are scattered widely. The main population
concentrations, such as they are, can be found at
the town of Garrison, which has grown up around the
starport, and on some of the larger asteroids. The most
important of these is Koenig’s Rock, in the main belt.
In addition to the Belter population, there are about
3,000 ‘company men’ in the system at any one time,
not residents or Belters but well-paid employees of
Ling Standard Products. LSP has more or less taken
over the Trailing Trojan cluster of asteroids and runs off
independents with armed cutters and mercenary security
troopers. There is an LSP company town in the cluster,
from which mining platforms are sent out to nearby
asteroids to extract whatever minerals can be found

125

