there. Ingots of ore are then launched by mass driver to
the two LSP stations near Garrison.
These two stations are owned and operated by LSP but
required by contract to process ore extracted by the
Belter population too. They orbit Bowman Prime at the
Trojan points of Alpha, from where it is easy to
transport the processed ore to the port for shipment
out of the system.
A third station orbits the outer edge of Bowman Prime’s
ring system but does not mine for ore. Instead, it
extracts a range of chemicals, as well as oxygen and
hydrogen, from ice chunks collected from Bowman
Prime’s extensive ring system.
There are two other operations taking place in the
Bowman system. The first is a small archaeological dig
underway on Epsilon, one of Bowman Prime’s larger
moons, discovered in 1093 to be the site of a pre-Maghiz
Darrian outpost. Meanwhile, salvage crews continue
to pick over the extensive field of starship wreckage
drifting among the asteroids of Bowman Prime’s leading
Trojan cluster. This dates from the period just after the
Second Frontier War, when a Sword World fleet that had
refused to surrender, and carried out a highly successful
commerce-raiding campaign, was finally tracked to its
base in the cluster and eliminated. The exploits of this
fleet, under Admiral Denisov, form part of Sword Worlder
naval tradition to this day.

PAVABID

Pavabid is an independent mid-tech world lying a
few parsecs from Imperial space on the most rimward
arm of the Spinward Main. It is a very habitable
world for humans, with slightly lighter gravity than
Earth, a standard atmosphere and plenty of water.
Unsurprisingly, Pavabid was settled early in the history
of the Marches and the population steadily grew to its
present level, about 700 million.
At some point in the world’s history, the Church
of Stellar Divinity became the world’s most widely
practised religion and later the official state religion
worldwide. The Church of Stellar Divinity turned Pavabid
into a theocracy but, without offworld influences, the
religion took a sinister turn and the wider church has
declared the Pavabid theocracy an official heresy and
condemns the actions of the world government. The
Pavabidian Heresy maintains that while all stars are
indeed gods, only Pavabid’s star is good and benign.
In order to protect them from the influences of enemy
stars, the people are kept isolated and not permitted
contact with offworlders. Travel to other systems is out
of the question.

126

Offworld visitors to Pavabid are restricted to a trade
enclave around the starport, guarded by church troops
and staffed by the most zealous and incorruptibly
faithful officials. Law enforcement within the enclave is
strict, equivalent to Law Level 8. Outside, it is nearer
Law Level 10, with church-imposed rules intruding into
all aspects of daily life.
The people of Pavabid are content and kept that way
by rules that prevent them from finding out about ways
of life that they might like better. All the same, life is
not bad. Pavabid is covered in small towns built around
light industry, with agricultural regions in between. Most
Pavabidians simply cannot conceive of any other life.
The head of the Pavabidian government is known as the
Son of the Star and considered to be the embodiment
of the star’s consciousness, making him both divine
and infallible. He dwells in a floating palace that moves
around Pavabid at his whim and is allegedly held aloft
by the hand of god; in fact it is a technological construct
using impressive but mundane gravitic technology.
Pavabid lies directly between Collace and Trexalon,
two worlds that are bitter rivals and hold diametrically
opposed views about the Imperium. Collace supports
Imperial expansion into District 268 and hopes to
become the subsector capital, while Trexalon is doing
everything it can to hamper Imperial advancement and
delay the region’s incorporation into the Imperium.
Since both Collace and Trexalon ships come to trade
at the port, clashes of interests occur from time-totime on Pavabid. However, in recent months things
have taken a turn for the worse. A survey of Pavabid
discovered extensive deposits of platinum and, more
importantly, iridium. Iridium is used in the production
of jump drives and is extremely valuable. Collace in
particular is interested in obtaining access to these
deposits, which is strictly forbidden by church law as
offworlders are not allowed outside the trade enclave.
The locals do not have the technology to extract it
themselves, making it impossible for Collace or anyone
else to obtain iridium from Pavabid.
Collace and Trexalon both believe that the other is
engaged in underhand methods to gain access to the
iridium deposits and neither is willing to allow the
other to pull off a coup and gain control of this rich
resource. Since both believe the other is willing to use
covert agents on Pavabid, counter-agents are necessarily
deployed. As yet there have been no serious incidents
but it is only a matter of time before the shadow war
spills over and becomes impossible for the church not to
notice. No-one can predict what might happen then.

