understrength and contains mostly small or obsolescent
vessels, its strength further diluted by the need to patrol
District 268 and maintain a detachment there. The
Sector Fleet also has a light presence in the subsector;
the region is a long way from likely combat zones in a
war with the Zhodani.
There are four Amber Zones in Glisten and one world
that, while not actually a Red Zone, has access strictly
restricted. This is Mithras, an Imperial prison world.
Environmental conditions are harsh, making survival
outside the prison complex problematical at best.
Although some prisoners are life-long exiles, there
are separate areas for those serving long but finite
sentences. The complex has a good rehabilitation
record and a small, attached institution for the
criminally insane.
Egypt is a major training base for Colonial Office
personnel. Originally set up for a large-scale move
into District 268, the facility has supported several
operations elsewhere and offers a retraining service for
ex-Imperial service personnel seeking to make a new life
on a frontier world.
Glisten itself is named for the capital settlement in a
system characterised by cities built in the two asteroid
belts. Originally called Gliss Ten (Gliss being the name
of the system’s star), Glisten City rose to become the
system capital and eventually the administrative centre
for the subsector. There are many other large cities
throughout the system’s belts, most specialising in one
aspect of industry or economic endeavour.

KRVN
Krvn are omnivorous and capable of burrowing through
dense soil. Their nests contain dozens, perhaps hundreds,
of workers and one or more large breeders which are rarely
seen aboveground.
ANIMAL
Krvn
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS
BEHAVIOUR

130

HITS
SPEED
16
8m
Stealth 1
Bite (1D)
Armour (+2)
Omnivore, Gatherer

Marastan is an Imperial reserve world. Although access
to the starport and associated city are unrestricted, only
properly accredited academics are permitted access
to the world at large, as Marastan is preserved as a
showcase for plant and animal species collected by the
Scout Service. Some of these are now extinct in their
home environment but survive on Marastan in carefully
segregated reserves.
Other worlds of interest in the subsector include Romar,
source of dust-spice, a narcotic valued by the Aslan,
and Melior, whose population is about half Jonkeereen.
Callia also has a significant Jonkeereen minority,
numbering around a quarter of the total population.

BICORNN

Lying off the main trade routes, Bicornn is a low-tech
world of no great importance. Its local population have
a stable TL2 society but never progressed further. There
is no reason why the locals could not develop their
technological base but this would require enormous
external investment before any returns were made. Few
would consider the effort worthwhile even if it were
not for the risks. Bicornn is heavily balkanised and its
population are engaged in a war of survival against a
burrowing arachnoid species known as Krvn. These
creatures resemble the Chamax, a hugely destructive
species found to spinward of the region, but are not
thought to be related. However, the alarm caused by
a possible connection with the Chamax sparked a
research project that made the startling discovery that
Krvn are present on a number of other worlds in quite
distant regions. How this came to be is not yet apparent,
although teams of Imperial researchers regularly risk
their lives on Bicornn to find out.

