KIAN
ANIMAL
Kian
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS
BEHAVIOUR

animals. Kian generally get along well with horses,
although most of those who use them choose one or the
other as the riding style is quite different.

HITS
SPEED
30
9m
Athletics (endurance) 1, Recon 1
Kick (1D)
Heightened Senses, Large (+1)
Herbivore, Grazer

The Kian is a mammal, although it resembles a large
flightless bird much like an ostrich. Kian are thought to
have originated on Prilissa in the Spinward Marches but
this is not certain. They are used as riding animals on
many worlds and are more agile than horses. However,
Kian cannot carry as much as a horse and, whilst faster
over short distances, are slowed on a long march.
Kian have fur and, in some cases, vestigial forelimbs.
This trait is common on some worlds and completely
absent on others, suggesting that distinct breeds or
sub-species are beginning to appear. Kian are favoured
by ranchers on many backwater worlds as they do not
require the imported parts for maintenance that a
vehicle would. They are herded for meat on some worlds
or used to control and watch over herds of other farm

and Dodds clusters. Jump-2 is also required to reach
Trin itself. However, trade is conducted on a large scale
within the subsector’s two main star clusters using
jump-1 ships.
Trin’s Veil is the responsibility of the 207th Fleet which,
like the 100th in Glisten, is somewhat understrength.
Patrols are maintained from the fleet headquarters at
Katarulu and bases on Murchison and Trin. The Sector
Fleet maintains a reserve at Trin but this is a battlereserve and rarely has vessels available for patrol work.
There is one Red Zone in the subsector (Zephyr) and
one Amber Zone (Hazel). Thisbe is not Amber Zoned
but can sometimes be dangerous; a long-term project is
underway to improve the world’s marginal atmosphere
and hydrographics by transporting ice asteroids from the
outsystem. Most are simply broken into small chunks
and dispatched in a decaying orbit that will cause them
to burn up in what little atmosphere there is, thereby
adding to it. A few fragments do reach the ground,
potentially causing a hazard.

The world of Prilissa is the origin of the Kian, a large
flightless bird used as a beast of burden on many worlds
and ceremonial mounts for the Imperial Household
Cavalry. Kian fulfil many of the same functions as horses
and have been exported almost as widely.

ARAMIS

There are two worlds named Aramis in the Spinward
Marches. The world named Aramis in the subsector also
named Aramis is an important trade centre and naval
base. The ‘other’ Aramis, in Trin’s Veil, is in many ways
the opposite.
This Aramis possesses something its more prosperous
namesake does not; a habitable ‘shirtsleeves’
environment. Gravity is slightly lighter than Terra-normal
and the air is quite thin. This is not a major problem,
but un-acclimatised visitors tire quickly and can become
light-headed from moderate activity. To offset this, most
ships approaching Aramis gradually lower their internal
air pressure during the week in jump, so most starfarers

135

