arrive already acclimatised to local conditions. While not
perfect, this enables visitors to avoid any serious effects.
Aramis is a very wet world, with extensive oceans and
relatively little useable land. Nevertheless, this is
more than enough for the population, which numbers
in the tens of millions. There is one moderately sized
continent and many large islands or archipelagos. Most
of the latter have their own small nations, which vary
considerably in terms of government and characteristics
but conform to TL5-6.
One island nation is, in fact, an industrial enclave
on long-term lease to Peabody Instrument, a firm
specialising in the manufacture of scientific apparatus
and instrumentation components for vehicles and
industrial applications. The Peabody enclave has a large
population – fully half a million people – and is also
the site of the starport, giving visitors to Aramis the
impression that it is a high-tech industrialised world. In
fact, beyond the shores of the Peabody enclave, which
takes up the entire mass of the large island, Aramis is a
mess of small mid-tech societies.
The mainland is home to the majority of the population,
with several states along the coastal strip, mostly known
as ‘claves (corrupted from enclave) and usually named
for their founders. These are independent and often
unfriendly, if not downright hostile, to one another. Each
‘clave consists of a few small towns or a couple of larger
ones, surrounded by villages and farms.
Inland is a wide outback region that is thinly populated
and has no formal government. Most outbackers live in
steads protected by a simple earth rampart with firing
positions. Raids and feuds are not uncommon and
outbacker towns are similarly protected. As a general
rule, outbackers do not like coasters (or ‘clavers as they
are sometimes known), although there is some trade
between coasters and outbackers, just as there is trade
between different ‘claves. For the most part, wary,
armed mistrust is the order of the day.
From time-to-time ‘claves come into conflict, usually
over a disputed border or resources. Similarly, the
‘claves will sometimes drive nearby outbackers off
their land, either to seize their resources or improve
the security. Hostility between coasters and outbackers
probably began in this way, although the origins of the
many disputes and grudges are long forgotten. Naturally,
the various ‘claves are willing to use outbackers against
one another, either by inciting a group of outbackers to
harass another ‘clave or raising units of irregular troops
from among outbackers for a more direct confrontation.
This serves to ensure the cycle of violence and mistrust
is not broken.

136

Most of Aramis is tense but not especially dangerous.
Offworlders are generally recognised as not involved
in the many feuds and may be offered courteous
hospitality amid what amounts to a war zone. There
are those who would like to engineer a situation where
rivals inadvertently kill offworlders but for the most part
visitors are more likely to be seen as useful contacts
or honoured guests. There is a strong tradition of
hospitality towards those you are not actively feuding
against on Aramis.
Offworlders are, however, not all that common outside
the Peabody Enclave. Aramis is off the beaten track
as far as interstellar commerce goes and although the
Peabody installation has a fair amount of high-tech
manufacturing equipment, this is used for its own
business applications and not available to generate trade
goods for the world.
Exports from the various ‘claves and island nations are
modest in quantity and constructed at TL6, making it
difficult to bring in revenue. Those ‘claves and nations
that can find something offworlders want, and who
invest the proceeds wisely, will eventually leave their
rivals behind or absorb them.

TEE-TEE-TEE

The origins of Tee-Tee-Tee’s strange name are lost in the
mists of time, although it is thought to be a corruption
of an old astrographical designation. The locals typically
call their world Threet (a contraction of ‘Three-Ts’),
which permits endless variations on the theme of ‘Threet
Fleet’ when referring to the world’s trade fleet. Tee-TeeTee is ruled by a consortium of hereditary trader princes,
who make their money offworld on the spacelanes; the
planet itself is just a base of operations and has little
industry of its own. The Threet Fleet can be encountered
all over the sector and beyond, with some merchant
cruisers staying out for years at a time.
Tee-Tee-Tee is otherwise a typical rockball planet with
the merest trace of atmospheric gas. Its 900,000 or
so inhabitants are mostly employed in the households
of the merchant princes – Tee-Tee-Tee is said to have
more accountants per square kilometre of its surface
than almost any other world this side of Core sector –
or in supporting industries at the small but efficient
starport. The world has a spectacular ring system
thought to be the result of a collision between moons
in the distant past. The spectacle is noted as one of
the ‘wonders of the Marches’ and frequently visited
by tourist ships. The downport makes a steady profit
from catering to these vessels, although tourism is
only as small sideline compared to the real business of
interstellar commerce.

