TRIN

Colonised not long after Mora, Trin is the ‘back door to
the Marches’. It can be reached from Deneb by an easy
jump-2 route through well-developed worlds, with good
ports in the Gulf subsector. This creates a lucrative trade
run into Trin, from where it is possible to head coreward
and join the Spinward Main or spinward towards Glisten.
Large quantities of goods move through Trin’s excellent
highport, which has many brokerages and commercial
dispute resolution firms. Most ships are larger types;
corporate freighters and liners rather than small,
privately-owned ships but Trin’s shipyards are used for
refits by many smaller operators - at least, those who
can afford the fees.
Trin Highport also hosts a very large independent
merchant academy, the Imperial Trin Institute of
Commerce (ITIC). ITIC trains merchant spacer crews but
also offers courses in related areas such as brokerage
and business law. Many of the personnel on the ‘spacer’
side of the institute also undertake Naval Reservist
training at the Imperial Navy base in the system.

This serves as headquarters for the subsector fleet
and a base for heavy squadrons of the Sector Fleet.
Trin’s system defences are commanded from a ground
installation on Trin itself but many of the system
defence vessels berth at the naval base. Trin also has a
small scout base to serve the communications network.
There is one other major facility in the Trin system, the
world of Ling Standard Products Spinward, named for
the corporate facility built on it in the early years of
corporate expansion into the area. Originally planned
to take over as regional headquarters from the facility
at Mora, it instead became a manufacturing site with a
side line in researching improved industrial techniques.
Trin itself is a medium-sized world with a dense,
tainted atmosphere and low water coverage. There
are no moons, although Trin had one in the past. The
cloud of reflective debris that makes dawn and sunset
so spectacular on Trin is the remnant of this satellite,
which broke up due to gravitational stresses.

137

