The world’s population numbers in the tens of billions.
As with many high population worlds, Trin’s people
are concentrated in very large cities surrounded by
agricultural areas. Even with such a large population,
there is plenty of land and well-regulated agriculture,
using high-technology methods, is capable of feeding
Trin’s billions without resorting to bulk food imports
or low-quality subsistence rations. Indeed, Trin is a
strong contender for one of the best places to live in
Charted Space; the cities are not crowded and very
well-designed by a civilisation that has had gravitic
transportation since the world was colonised. Buildings
are characteristically tall, with wide spaces between
them filled with parks and recreation facilities. Most
Trin residents are used to thinking in three dimensions
when getting about, the idea of being stuck at ground
level is foreign to them.

Trin’s effective and efficient social system tends to
produce motivated and skilled people. Coupled with a
Tech Level as high as anywhere in the Imperium, this
has made Trin an industrial powerhouse whose goods
are exported across the sector and far beyond. That
in turn generates a level of wealth only dreamed of on
many worlds.

Ground vehicles are not common on Trin, other than
for industrial and agricultural use, and mobility within
large buildings. Getting around in the city involves fast,
efficient maglev trains or grav buses floating between
landing areas on the exterior of buildings. Maglev rail
lines link the cities, along with high-speed grav vehicles.

However, Trin is an economic centre and her government
understands that flexibility and rapid responses are
necessary for success in commerce. Calculated risks are
acceptable, so long as there is always enough in reserve
to cover a loss and nothing is ventured that cannot be
done without. Cautious speculation is the order of the
day in the economic arena and other areas too, such as
scientific research.

The general populace are well educated and enjoy a very
high quality of life. Upward mobility is available through
promotions at work but for those of a different bent it is
possible to obtain government sponsorship (equivalent
to an appropriate salary) for excellence or promise in
areas as diverse as art, writing, music and sport. There
are poor people on Trin, of course, but there is a highly
effective social safety net, which is normally sufficient
to allow anyone who has fallen on hard times to start
climbing back to prosperity. Being flat broke on Trin
is not quite the same as being down and out on some
frontier world or mid-tech industrial hellhole.

138

Trin’s government is typical of high-population worlds, in
that it has a semi-corporate, bureaucratic structure that
follows established practices. Stability is considered
the priority in most areas of governance - Trin is so far
ahead of the pack that reckless growth is undesirable
and carries a risk of damaging the world’s enviable
position as one of the best and richest places to live this
side of the Imperial Core. Trin has it good and prefers to
play safe to ensure things stay that way.

This innate caution has, oddly enough, prompted the
government of Trin to invest in some very unlikely
scientific projects, economic investments and
exploratory missions. If there is a risk that someone else
might make a big score from a project that Trin might
miss, then the government is willing to invest, just in
case it pays off. This attitude puzzles some outsiders
but it makes sense to those who grew up on Trin. They
explain that: ‘When you’re rich, you can afford to throw
a little money into blue-sky projects. If it’s a bust,
nothing is really lost. But once in a while you get lucky.’

