Deneb sector lies beyond the Great Rift, around 12
months’ travel from the Imperial core aboard a standard
jump-2 liner. It is a place of contrasts, with highly
developed economies and one of the highest-tech worlds
in the Imperium counterpointed by backwaters and a
troubled coreward frontier.
Most of the 385 star systems of Deneb sector lie within
the Imperial border, including Deneb itself. Deneb is
one of the brightest stars in the night sky and, according
to local legend, it was the beacon that drew Imperial
explorers onward through Corridor and ultimately to the
current Imperial frontier in the Spinward Marches sector.
The truth of this is debatable but Deneb has been used
as a calibration point by navigators for centuries.
The politics of Deneb sector have always been vigorous,
with subsector dukes vying for greater influence over
their neighbours and incursions by Vargr from just across
the coreward border. The region saw bitter fighting
during the civil war of the 600s and there are those who
still bear grudges. The Humbolt noble house, architects
of Deneb’s early expansion, were exiled after the war
but continue to cast a long shadow over the region.
Politics is a dangerous game in this sector and even the
humblest merchant captain can be drawn into a web of
highly complex machinations. Those with ambition can
find opportunities here but they must tread carefully;
the powers of Deneb are not merciful towards those who
interfere in their plans.

First Impressions

There are distinct regions within Deneb, with their own
character. As a general rule, Deneb is more developed
than the neighbouring Spinward Marches but there
are backwaters and frontier zones where centuries
of progress seem to have passed unnoticed. In some
cases, trade routes run through these regions, which are
subject to sporadic attempts to pacify troubled systems
or upgrade their economies to make them an asset
to the sector as a whole. For the most part, however,
backwaters seem destined to remain so.

140

Between the major worlds, the x-boat routes and
merchant shipping lanes are filled with liners and
freighters, many operated by large corporations; largescale freighting and bulk cargo are big business in
Deneb. Some extremely long-range freighters come all
the way from the Imperial core, terminating at Mora or
Rhylanor in the Spinward Marches. More commonly,
long-distance cargoes are shipped in stages, sometimes
as a whole and sometimes broken up into ever-smaller
lots as they move farther from the Imperial heartland.
The most famous world in Deneb is Vincennes, partly
for its TL16 and partly for its role as the base of the
infamous Humbolt family. At Vincennes, the FGMP16 prototype is undergoing second-generation trials.
Organic computers are on the horizon, promising a
large improvement in starship automation. Droptank
configurations hold out hope of fuel-minimal freighters
and liners, and experimental jump-6 x-boats are being
tested between Magash and Kubishush, and Kubishush
and Vincennes. This position at the cutting edge
of Imperial technology should make Vincennes the
foremost world, and its duke the foremost noble, in the
sector. At least, the Duke of Vincennes thinks so. Others
are determined to make sure this does not happen.
There are six Imperial research stations in Deneb sector,
pushing the limits of science, yet just a few parsecs away
are worlds trapped in a cycle of conflict and economic
collapse. Mercenaries, privateers and smugglers find
these worlds a constant source of employment, whilst the
Imperial Navy struggles to maintain order amid conflicting
political directives, corsair raids from across the border
and the occasional trade war or armed confrontation
between the subsector dukes.
A place of contrasts and one where apparent success
can lead to unexpected intervention from a powerful
corporation or noble house whose carefully laid schemes
have been disrupted. In the words of the great social
historian Malden Arkhesaar ‘Deneb sector: Bright lights.
Lots of shadows.’

