HISTORICAL

PERSPECTIVE

There was life in Deneb sector long before the Ancients
uplifted humans and Vargr and seeded them throughout
Charted Space. Much of that life was basic; the
progenitors of today’s flora and fauna found on many
worlds throughout the sector. Even there, a few anomalies
exist; species that appear integrated into local ecosystems
so well that they seem to have evolved there but which
did not. Some transplanted species seem to date back
millions of years, long before the Ancients developed the
jump drive and began exploring the region.
Various hypotheses exist about how this came to be.
Did some species travel the stars of the region in the
extremely distant past? This idea is popular among the
sort of scientists who get invited to take part in lowbudget chat shows but there is no evidence to support
it. Is this an extreme case of parallel evolution or did
the Ancients integrate these species with local life as
an experiment? None of these ideas seem particularly
strong but there is no better explanation.
There is archeological evidence of intelligent life in
Deneb long before humans or even the Ancients arrived.
Most of these species got no further than a Neolithic
level of tool use and on a few worlds stone-age societies
survived until humans colonised the region. The remains
of a few cultures that got further and developed a
low-tech civilisation are studied by Imperial scientists
interested in how they came to an end.
It is known that the Ancients were active in Deneb,
leaving behind a few sites of interest and the odd
isolated artefact. They seeded humans on some worlds
and transplanted the Vargr to the region coreward of
Deneb. After the Ancients disappeared, these societies
went their own way, with Vargr eventually filtering into
Deneb through gradual expansion. Human settlers
arrived during the First and Second Imperium but it was
not until after the Long Night that most of Deneb was
colonised by humans pushing through Corridor.
Little more than legends remain from these early eras.
It is said that the Deneb system itself was colonised
around -2400 by Vilani fleeing the collapse of the First
Imperium. Certainly there were humans of Vilani descent
dwelling on Deneb when the first scouts from the Third
Imperium arrived but Deneb seems a rather odd choice
for a place to settle. A sparse system orbiting a giant
star, with an uninviting mainworld, Deneb was a lot less
welcoming than many other worlds in the region. Some
systems were settled around the same time and perhaps
one of them was intended as the main colony instead.

Sittin’ on the Dock

There is a direct correlation between the number
of ships coming into a world’s port from any
given power and the amount of influence it
has. Movement of people and goods leads to a
merging of cultures, along with the knowledge
that the nearby power will quickly come to know
about events on the world and is likely to care
about them. Thus, jump-1 clusters and mains
are important not only in economic terms but
also politically – all those little tramp freighters
carry culture and political influence from worldto-world.
The converse is also true; an isolated world will
perceive less influence from any given power
and one of the indicators that a subsector duke
wishes to gain control of a world is an increase
in the number of ships using its port. Even if
these are independents or third-party vessels,
it is not difficult to trace the increase back to
origins. The intelligence agencies of all duchies
keep careful watch on ships coming and going
in their ports and there is good money to be
made by independents from selling accurate
shipping rosters from more distant worlds to the
intelligence services. Of course, this third-party
information might be sold to more than one
client and it might have been manipulated, so
wherever possible duchies put their own agents
in place or work with trusted regulars who have
established the reliability of their data.

Be that as it may, the Vilani colony on Deneb regressed
during the Long Night but regained jump technology
by the time the Third Imperium arrived. Some Vilani
colonies died out but survivors were recontacted and
formed the basis of the Lidash League, which was extant
at the time Imperial explorers arrived.
Similarly, around -1700 a large group of Solomani exiles
settled on Vincennes. The choice of that particular world
remains a mystery; again, Vincennes was hardly the most
promising prospect in the region. Conditions were tough
enough that the colony died out during the Long Night.
The legend of Vincennes continued to hold a strange
fascination for the Solomani people, however. Another
group of exiles would later claim it as their home.

141

