A Study in Denebian Politics

Jehun is located on the trailing-rimward fringe of the Sabine subsector and therefore within the Duchy of
Sabine. It is a garden world, rich and agricultural, but has a small economic base and thus little power of its
own. Jehun should be able to rely on the protection of the subsector fleet but this is subject to the influence of
the Duke of Sabine. The duke does not directly control the fleet’s deployments but can apply pressure for ships
to be sent there or elsewhere depending on his own agenda and how favourably inclined he is towards Jehun.
Jehun is closer to important worlds in the duchies of Inar and Vincennes than the centre of power in Sabine
and receives more ships from these regions. Its agricultural exports are of some importance to nearby major
worlds - Thengin in the Duchy of Sabine, Kubishush in the Duchy of Inar, Northammon and Vincennes in
the Duchy of Vincennes. In addition, as a border system, Jehun is vulnerable to the influence of Inar and
Vincennes. Both have repeatedly attempted to gain control, if only to weaken the position of Sabine or each
other.
The local TAS feeds give a feel for local politics:
1102-110 Magash/Sabine: Magash warmly welcomes the new Vincennes ambassador to the subsector capital.
Sir Rikeb replaces the late Mr. Thaeho of Northammon, who died of natural causes last month while presiding
over the embassy. An elite Sabine guard is placed at the disposal of Sir Rikeb.
1102-143 Kubishush/Inar: Several members of an undisclosed noble family were kidnapped in a recent raid
by privateers on Hessel. Their release was quickly negotiated in return for processed radioactives, a move
condemned by a spokesperson from the Duchy of Sabine. Representatives from Vincennes and Magash have
loudly denounced the Hessel kidnapping and called for the Inar subsector fleet to step up patrols in the region.
1102-190 Northammon/Vincennes: The execution of a Sabine diplomat accused of espionage has drawn
condemnation from the Duchy of Sabine. Sources on Vincennes state that the diplomat was found offworld,
in the Peres system, in possession of classified research data. In a strongly worded statement, Sabine protests
that the execution was performed ‘without due process’.
1102-199 Thengin/Sabine: A clash between mercenary forces and a vessel of the 195th Fleet off Sabine has
been justified by the mercenaries’ patron, who claims the subsector forces looked and acted like pirates. This
assertion has been dismissed by both the 195th Fleet itself and the office of the Duke of Sabine as ‘nonsense’.
1102-204 Inar/Inar: Vessels of the Duke of Inar’s personal forces have exchanged fire with a destroyer-sized
intruder within the borders of the Inar subsector. The intruder identified itself as belonging to the Duchy of
Vincennes but would not follow proper communication protocols nor state its business. Damage on both sides is
said to be slight but the incident has sparked new tensions between Inar and Vincennes.
1102-218 Jehun/Sabine: Count Ara Pacis has refused to comment on his withdrawal from Jehun’s annual trade
cartel forums upon the arrival of an ambassador from Vincennes. Sources on Jehun report the count as being
visibly angry and barely able to tolerate the presence of the ambassador.
1102-250 Northammon/Vincennes: An explosion at Northammon’s Shipyard is thought to have claimed several
lives, though yard officials claim the damage is negligible. Other sources have shared images of a smoking
crater where maintenance facilities used to be.
1102-270 Jehun/Sabine: The Duchy of Sabine has roundly condemned the actions of a task force from the
Duchy of Inara, which entered the Jehun system and routed a force of privateers. A spokesperson from
Sabine dismissed Inaran claims that the privateers were those who previously kidnapped nobles from Hessel
and were operating from a base in Jehun. In turn, Inara has issued a statement that the Duchy of Sabine is
either harbouring pirates or turning a blind eye to their activities when it suits the duke’s purposes and that
if Sabine will not take action then others will.

142

