EARLY EXPLORATION

AND SETTLEMENT

The earliest serious attempt to chart and survey all of
Deneb sector began in year 60, although Scout Service
vessels had made sweeps much earlier and venturesome
traders were pushing though the sector long before
official charts were published. The early mapping
missions suffered from a disjointed and contradictory
brief, the result of pressure from different groups who all
wanted different data. The scouts were under pressure
to push out rapidly to find resource-rich worlds for
exploitation but also to create detailed surveys of each
system as they progressed methodically through the
sector. Some agencies wanted to know about potential
threats, while others were eager to develop the ‘big
picture’ of what lay beyond the Great Rift and pushed
for long-range exploration at the expense of detail.
Early explorers also came under threat from corsairs
and non-human enclaves which, were not always
friendly, but nevertheless settlement took place and
trade routes were forced through to the new colonies.
Resource-rich worlds were targeted for heavy investment
by megacorporations, whilst other groups grabbed
what land they could in a semi-regulated rush. Later
settlement was much more orderly but this was the early
days of the new Third Imperium; lessons were still being
learned and there was an almost amateurish excitement
about the opening of a new region.
In year 34, long before the detailed survey of the sector
began, Imperial scouts made contact with the Lagash
League, a small state descended from Vilani colonists
around Deneb. The League had possessed jump drive
technology for some time but was under near-constant
attack from corsairs and raiders when not fending off
attempts at conquest from nearby Vargr states. In return
for a small fleet of obsolescent warships, the Imperium
gained an ally in the region and in year 100 the
League’s member worlds joined the Imperium as they
crushed local opposition, improved their own security
and not coincidentally made Imperial expansion into the
sector much safer. In these early actions can be seen a
precursor of the modern dukes’ machinations – although
the Imperium provided the ships, it was the Lagash
League that bore the cost of campaigns against the local
Vargr states, with the Imperium quietly moving into the
power vacuum created.
Not all Vargr states of Deneb were hostile. The Atsak
Federation was incorporated almost bloodlessly by
a combination of diplomacy and blatant display of
strength; the Federation was at the time in a state of
near-collapse, which was exploited by the Imperial
ambassador in a very devious manner. The results of

this negotiation have caused problems for the Imperium
ever since, as local worlds did not join the Imperium
as members under the normal system. Instead, their
leaders swore allegiance to the newly appointed duke
as their overlord – but in his capacity as leader, not an
Imperial representative. Today, these worlds have an
unusual status as client states of the Imperium, located
within the Imperium and loyal to an Imperial noble but
not directly tied to the Imperium.
Settlement of the sector took place between years 80 and
250 or so, spreading spinward from Corridor and outward
from major colonies set up on resource-rich or habitable
worlds. Incorporation into the Imperium was immediate
for some worlds but some did not join until the 400s.
The local Vargr states proved to be a major obstacle to
expansion, resulting in a series of military operations
known as the Vargr Campaigns, starting in the 220s.
In addition to naval operations, the Imperium
deliberately targeted some areas for enhanced
colonisation, attempting to create lasting security by
creating strong and stable enclaves that could pacify
surrounding systems. One of these was the world of
Vincennes, which was placed under the governance of
the Humbolt family.
The Humbolts were Imperial nobles of Solomani descent,
with a track record for competence and intelligent
leadership. They were, according to most accounts,
out of favour at the time and requested to be assigned
to Vincennes as part of a deal whereby they avoided
censure for some failure or perhaps implication in a plot
against the Emperor. Other versions of the story claim the
Humbolts were clear-eyed heroes who went into what was
effectively exile because it was in the best interests of the
Imperium that they secure Deneb sector. There are also
some distinctly whacky conspiracy theories about ancient
artefacts, psionic knights and a centuries-long masterplan
on the part of the Humbolts, the Emperor or both.
Whatever the reasons, the Humbolt family came to
Vincennes with a great deal of capital to invest and
quickly led the world into an explosion of economic and
technological progress. They were sufficiently powerful
that whole worlds could be assigned to a particular
function – the HRD system derives its name form
Humbolt Research Division and was a cornerstone of
their early success.
While the Humbolts were pacifying the area around
Vincennes, ensuring the way was open for expansion into
the Spinward Marches, the nearby Pretoria subsector
was targeted by megacorporate interests. At the time of
its incorporation into the Imperium, Pretoria already had
extensive shipyards fuelled by the industry of resource-

143

