rich worlds. Imperial territory in Deneb reached its current
extent in the mid 500s, and development continued
at a slower pace thereafter. Many of the sector’s worlds
‘missed the boat’ in this early expansion and, as a result,
never received significant investment. These worlds
generally remain backwaters to this day. Indeed, there
is a general acceptance that if a world had not achieved
prominence by the outbreak of the Civil War, it never will.

THE CIVIL WAR ERA

The First Frontier War, which ran from 589 to 604,
was brought to a successful conclusion by Admiral Olav
Hault-Plankwell, commander of the Spinward Marches
Fleet, despite a lack of assistance from the rest of the
Imperium. Immediately afterward, he brought his fleet
to Deneb’s naval depot and began to rally support for a
drive on Capital. Elements of the Deneb fleet supported
him, although it is not clear how fully understood his
intentions were at the time.
Arriving at Capital, Plankwell demanded an audience
with Empress Jaqueline and personally killed her,
assuming the Iridium Throne as the first of the Emperors
of the Flag. His reign was short-lived and he was
followed by a succession of fleet commanders and high
nobles who claimed the throne by right of fleet control or
assassination, only to be eliminated in turn.
Amid the chaos of the Civil War, the Second Frontier
War erupted in the Spinward Marches, drawing the

144

Deneb fleet away to support the weak forces left by
Plankwell. Ultimately, this was enough and under the
command of the new Grand Admiral of the Spinward
Marches, Arbellatra, the combined fleet returned in
triumph to Deneb. From there, Arbellatra headed for
Capital but chose a different path to her predecessors.
Rather than claiming the throne, she defeated all
claimants and declared her willingness to act as regent
until a suitable candidate could be agreed upon by the
Imperial Moot. Perhaps as she had intended all along,
Arbellatra was named Empress by the Moot in 629.
In the meantime, the situation in Deneb was chaotic.
The gravely weakened fleet could not prevent Vargr raids
from causing immense damage deep into the sector.
Powerful worlds with their own defensive squadrons
were safe enough but those lacking fleets of their own
suffered raids that went uncountered for years. During
this time, Deneb underwent its own miniature version of
the Imperial civil war.
The conflict had multiple causes, including attempts
by some subsector dukes to become sector duke,
factional differences caused by support or opposition
to Plankwell, Arbellatra or other Imperial claimants,
and resentment over worlds left defenceless by fleet
movements. There were several factions, creating a
complex situation where alliances suddenly broke down
and shocking betrayals were undertaken.

