Political Gambits: Letters of
Marque and Reprisal

Letters of marque and reprisal are a useful tool in
the arsenal of an ambitious noble but must be used
with care. A letter of marque and reprisal authorises
a starship to act as a privateer, attacking targets
specified in its remit. Privateers are also permitted to
hire out as escorts to protect other vessels or collect
a ‘safe passage toll’ from certain ship operators.
A letter of marque and reprisal can protect a
ship’s crew from being treated as pirates if caught,
although only if they remain within its terms and
do not break Imperial High Law – for example by
murdering the crew of a surrendered vessel. Some
letters specify targets, others particular localities
such as a certain main or cluster. For example, a
letter of marque and reprisal may permit privateers
to attack shipping in a particular system but require
them to protect or at least leave unmolested ships
registered at certain ports.
An equivalent license is sometimes granted to
planetside forces, permitting them to act against
particular groups or a world government. In theory,
such a force can legitimately raid the target’s
assets – including banks and cargo depots – for
profit without being declared criminals. If caught,
personnel acting under a letter of marque should
be treated as combatants in a legitimate conflict
and are protected by the threat of reprisals by the
letter’s issuer. Whether this is respected by the
captors depends a lot on circumstances.
Letters of marque and reprisal are normally issued
to further the noble’s own agenda, usually by
permitting independents to harass the opponent at
their own expense. Sometimes the issuer requires
a percentage of any profits and sometimes a letter
of marque will be sold as a business venture.
Exploiting conflict to make money this way is seen
as unethical by some nobles but by no means all.

The landgrabs and powerplays began in 613, at the
height of the Civil War. At first the conflict was almost
polite, with justifications for every action and statements
of regret about necessity or blame being directed at
others. Conventions of civilised warfare were respected
and the early phase of the conflict is generally thought
of as being a ‘good war’ – one in which the damage is
limited and combatants try to behave decently.

However, the good war quickly turned bad, with attacks
on economic centres, shipyards and starports intended
to weaken other factions. An alliance between Vincennes
and Inar was countered by the other factions putting
aside their differences to align against them. With more
than half the Deneb fleet headed spinward to defend the
Imperium against invasion, the remainder was drawn
into ever more vicious fighting in its home sector.
The ‘bad war’ came to an end in 622, when the newly
appointed regent Arbellatra ordered the fleets of the
warring factions in Deneb to stand down. Most did,
returning to base and eventually being reintegrated
into the Imperial fleet. Some refused to accept the
regent, however. Among them were the Humbolt family,
Dukes of Vincennes and at one point almost rulers of
the entire Deneb sector. The Humbolts were eventually
chased down and their fleet destroyed in 628, although
there are those who claim that the last stand was in
fact a clever ruse. If so, the fleet and senior members
of the Humbolt family were sacrificed to give the
Imperium a clear target whilst other assets were
hidden. Whatever the truth of this, all family members
and high-ranking retainers who could be found were
exiled from the Imperium. Their current whereabouts
are unknown.

THE POST-WAR ERA

Reconstruction after the end of hostilities was rapid
and helped return stability to the region. This was a
severe necessity, since an unstable Deneb imperiled
the Spinward Marches. Lavish investment and genuine
attempts to address grievances did much to heal the
wounds inflicted in the bad war but there are those who
still bear grudges to this day.
In the two centuries after the end of the Civil War, no
less than six Imperial research stations were created
in Deneb. Among the fields of study were psionic
phenomena and techniques, but by the late 700s
psionics were viewed with grave suspicion and the
research stations redirected their efforts. The Psionics
Suppressions closed down all overt psionic research,
although some of the institutes went underground and
may have survived in some form.
Economic and technological development has
continued, with long-established major worlds of the
sector increasing in power and the backwaters left ever
further behind. This has resulted in resentment and
unrest but the grumbling of minor world governments
can be safely ignored by those who wield power, at least
most of the time. When one of the sector’s major players
begins giving the minor worlds what they want, others
take notice.

145

