Usually this comes to nothing; a backwater world that
shifts allegiance and receives investment as a reward
is not going to change the balance of power overnight.
Occasionally, however, a minor player manages to obtain
meaningful concessions by the right gambit at the right
time. This is the great hope of most backwater planetary
governments; to benefit from the powerplays of the
dukes without attracting a backlash.

DENEB TODAY

Deneb is today renowned as a centre for innovation
and exploration. It is home to the Jumpspace Institute,
known throughout the Imperium as an innovator in
starship propulsion technologies, and during the sector’s
formative years, the Institute was a sponsor of major
exploratory efforts into neighboring sectors. Also based
in the sector is the Sklar Astrophysical Society.
In addition there are six Imperial Research Stations. Few
sectors can boast of similar dedication to research and
development, nor such diversity. The Denebian stations
pursue a wide range of activities, from experiments in
theoretical physics to undersea geological studies.
Another key characteristic is in government itself; there
is no sector duke. Megacorporate interests prefer Deneb
to be relatively independent of the Imperial hierarchy
and the Imperial Navy finds it easier to deal with Deneb
as a collection of subsectors rather than a united sector.
The Emperor sees potential disruption in a united
Deneb; there is much truth in this, although it is also a
habitual mindset derived from the region’s difficult past.
The region beyond Corridor – Deneb and the Spinward
Marches – are sufficiently isolated that a powerful leader
might find a secure base there, with a rebellion or even
grab for the Imperial throne difficult to nip in the bud.
This is not paranoia; it has happened in the past. It
thus suits the Emperor to keep Deneb from becoming
united, as several dukes scheming against one another
is a lesser evil than one duke deciding to take a unified
sector out of the Imperium.
The navy’s high command agrees with this policy. Case
Blue 4408 is a nightmare scenario used in strategic
planning, whereby a hypothetical Duke of Deneb
declares independence and deploys naval forces to block
the narrow approach through Corridor. The Imperial
Navy could break through but the cost would be high.
Even without a single leader in Deneb, naval intelligence
routinely watches warship redeployments for a buildup
at the trailing end of the sector. Current planning is for
a rapid-response force to seize key worlds in the region
at the first hint of large-scale trouble, acting as a wedge
to keep the door from being slammed in the navy’s face.

146

Astute observers gauge the Emperor’s concerns about
events in Deneb by the movements of heavy squadrons
in Corridor. A large-scale exercise near the spinward
end of the sector usually indicates something serious is
unfolding in Deneb.
The subsector dukes and other great nobility of Deneb
are often – in some cases constantly – at odds. Normally
this is restricted to economic sanctions or cut-throat
business practices, manipulation of voting blocks in the
Imperial Moot and occasional rabble-rousing. Support of
rebels and interference in attempts to put down dissent
are more common than in other areas, leading to a
situation where local conflicts have become proxy wars
between the great nobility.
Direct large-scale conflict is fairly rare, as it attracts
Imperial displeasure, and trade wars and armed clashes
are accepted by the Imperium up to a point – better
a short war and negotiated resolution than a dispute
running for decades. The sector’s great nobles must use
their own forces to fight these conflicts; the Imperial
armed forces receive political direction from the nobility
but are not directly commanded and, in any case, are
loyal to the Imperium, not subsector nobility.
This does not stop the Dukes of Deneb trying to make
use of the Imperial forces. Direct orders to go and attack
a neighbouring subsector are illegal and will be refused
– and might result in a duke being removed from his
position. However, some dukes are skilled at putting
the forces assigned to their subsector in a position
where they have to go along with the duke’s plans.
Measures range from deception (faked intelligence,
false-flag attacks and so forth) to innocuous requests
to put a warship where the duke knows something is
about to happen.
When open conflict occurs, Imperial forces attempt
to remain neutral. This often puts commanders in the
frustrating position of watching a clash whilst repeating
endless requests for calm and restraint. These are
politely ignored by both factions… who of course will
also be loudly protesting the actions of the other side
and demanding the navy stop standing idly by and
actually do something about the heinous villainy of the
opposing faction.
Many medals have been won under difficult
circumstances in Deneb; warships shepherding crippled
vessels out of a fight, firing only in self-defence despite
extreme provocation, or peacekeepers under fire from
both sides yet bound by orders not to retaliate unless
specific and provably deliberate actions are taken
against them. Careers have also been wrecked by splitsecond decisions that seemed correct at the time.

