Service in Deneb is unpopular, not least because any
senior commander is likely to be at odds with his
subsector nobility from the day he is appointed. ‘Playing
the navy’ is a skill most of the nobility possess and yet
naval officers are expected to be polite and respectful to
the nobles they know are using them.
Even if Imperial forces can be tricked or coerced into
helping a duke fight his neigbours, most conflicts fall
upon the household forces of the nobles themselves.
Deneb’s great nobility has more warships per capita than
any other sector except perhaps Core. These ships tend
to be small compared to the vessels of the Imperial Navy
but their crews are often very experienced – indeed,
navy veterans are actively recruited into household
forces, usually at a higher rank than they left the
Imperial forces with or at least a better salary.
When open conflict takes place, the Imperium takes
action for any Rules of War violations but otherwise
remains neutral. Many of the sector’s nobles are in
a continual state of cold war with each other, with
occasional skirmishing. Mercenary groups of all types
are contracted by multiple parties and corporations
are often induced to pick sides. At the same time, no
one dares attack an Imperial Navy base and no one
interferes with, obstructs or provokes Imperial fleets
without suffering severe consequences.

THE IMPERIUM

Most of Deneb is Imperial territory and administered
in the same way as other regions. The Imperium does
not directly rule worlds, although special considerations
apply where a planet or whole star system is Imperial
territory. In these cases, those worlds with a large
population have a government like any other inhabited
planet, although it is answerable to the Imperium.
Other ‘Imperial Worlds’ and smaller Imperial territories,
such as a major naval base, are treated as installations
rather than member worlds, with governance provided
by the service using the base or a civilian administration
operating on behalf of the population and service. These
administrators are usually provided by the Imperial
Bureaucracy and such territories are generally places
where people go to work for a few years at a time rather
than homelands.
A few institutions exist at the Imperium-wide level.
These include the standard calendar, services such
as the Ministry of Justice and Imperial Navy, and the
Imperial High Laws. The Imperium reserves the right
to conduct foreign policy at the Imperium-wide level,
although powers are granted to local officials to do as
necessary without waiting months for directives from
Capital. Thus, a subsector duke in Deneb cannot declare
war on the Zhodani Consulate, as this is an Imperium-

wide decision but some officials are granted
specific powers to deal with issues outside the
borders as necessary.

DUCAL POWERS

AND PRIVILEGES

The great nobility of the Imperium are expected to deal
with problems occurring in their own area of interest
and are generally empowered to do so in whatever
manner they think most suitable so long as they do not
exceed their remit or break Imperial High Law. Each
duke has powers appropriate to his station and location
of his territory.
Thus, the Duke of Pretoria is empowered to conduct
local foreign policy with Vargr worlds and states just
beyond the Imperial border, up to and including the
use of military force. He can negotiate treaties, make
or cancel major trade deals, grant passage to foreign
merchant ships or even warships… but he must be
ever mindful that he answers to the Emperor for every
decision. Too many small errors or one catastrophe can
result in a duke being deposed and replaced by someone
more competent. Politics in Deneb are such that some
subsector dukes are actively working on schemes to
cause just such a disaster for their neighbours.
Devolved powers of this sort are granted to those who
make a case for needing them or in many cases come
with the position. These ‘standing’ powers can be
revoked at the Emperor’s decision but normally remain
in place for generations after they cease to be needed.
The Imperial Moot has seen many impassioned speeches
and closely contested votes over a decision to revoke an
ancient power now completely irrelevant, for no better
reason than the holder of that power feels like he is
losing face by relinquishing it.
Subsector dukes along the border have the power (it is
usually called a privilege) to make deals and use force
against, worlds and states along the borders. Those
further away do not usually have this privilege but may
petition the Emperor to be given it. At present, for
example, representatives from the Duchy of Atsah are
conducting a years-long lobbying campaign for their
duke to be given Privileges of Foreign Policy regarding
the Vargr states to coreward. This is opposed by
representatives of the Duchy of Antra, whose duke does
not want someone else empowered to send a fleet across
the border.
With no sector duke in place, matters that would
normally be dealt with at the sector level either devolve
to the subsector dukes or default to the standing
Imperium-wide position. This has some interesting

147

