consequences. For example, the Duke of Usani is
entirely within his rights to negotiate a large-scale trade
deal with a Vargr world over the border but the Duke of
Atsah could embargo that world using his own powers.
This would not prevent ships from the Duchy of Inar
from trading there and the Duke of Inar would normally
grant passage to Imperial trade ships – including those
from Usani – as a matter of course. However, the Duke
of Atsah could make a case for enforcing the embargo,
even firing upon or seizing Usani ships.
Normally such a matter would be ruled on by the sector
duke but without one the case must go all the way to
Capital for adjudication, which is likely to take months
or years, on top of transit times. Some inter-duchy
issues have been awaiting a decision for decades,
either due to complexity or relative importance of other
matters. This seems to suit the overall Imperial position;
local dukes eventually find some kind of workable
solution to their problems and, so long as there is little
or no disruption on a wider scale, the endless squabbles
of Deneb can be largely ignored.

GOVERNANCE

Most of the governance of any sector takes place at
a low level. World governments set their own laws,
maintain forces for security and local defence, and
conduct their own affairs. World governments have
some limits on their behaviour but considerable latitude
within them. Two worlds can even go to war with one
another providing they follow the Imperial Rules of War.
When this happens, the local nobility will normally apply
pressure to bring the conflict to a close though this is
of course subject to the nobles’ own agenda. Wars of
conquest are not permitted; one world cannot conquer
another although outposts on remote outsystem moons
can, and do, change hands.
Self-governance is ‘internal’. In other words issues that
extend beyond a planet’s 100-diameter jump limit are
automatically of interest to the Imperium, although for
the most part, world governments are left to get on with
their own affairs. When a dispute or wider issue breaks
out, mediation is offered by the Imperial nobility. There
is a clearly defined system in place for who deals with
any given issue.
The noble associated with each world in a dispute
(usually a baronet, baron or marquis) sends a delegation
– or occasionally goes personally – to the court of the
next higher multiworld grouping. This is typically a
viscount or count if the world is part of a county; if not
the matter is dealt with at the subsector duke’s court. If
the matter is entirely within a given noble’s remit then

148

The Dukes and the Fleet

Major worlds under the control of the subsector
dukes build and maintain the vessels of Deneb’s
fleet but these fleets have a chain of command
terminating with the Emperor, not the local nobility.
They cannot be used for resolving internal, regional,
or sector-wide disputes without Imperial approval
passed down the proper chain of command, no
matter what the subsector duke might have to say
on the subject. This is an Imperial law put into
effect after the Civil War, where sector autonomy
resulted in rapid successions – and assassinations –
of some two dozen emperors.

judgement can be issued. If not, there will be further
back-and-forth discussion with representatives of the
nobles involved until a solution is agreed. Of course,
since the nobility do not directly rule worlds, a world
government could reject the solution its associated
noble has negotiated. This is rare and usually leads
to intervention.
Interventions can take the form of warships in the sky
and boots on the ground, although far more commonly
economic pressure is placed upon the world. Interdiction
(Red Zoning for political reasons) is an extreme way of
compelling a world to accept a resolution but it happens
from time-to-time. Although worlds are self-governing,
the high nobility has the power to force compliance
when necessary.
Which subsector duke hears a given world’s petitions is
thus of great importance. Those worlds that lie firmly
within the boundaries of a duchy normally have little
choice but the political situation in Deneb is such that
worlds can sometimes choose which duke they will give
loyalty to. This tends to anger a duke who has lost the
support of a given world, so the ability of the new liege
to protect the world from retribution – which might or
might not be very subtle – is important when making
such a grave choice.
Worlds in subsectors that do not have a duke in place
have more choice – or rather, they can choose with less
concern about consequences – than those located close
to a ducal seat. However, the allegiance of all worlds in
Deneb is theoretically up for grabs. Governance over a
greater number of worlds gives a duke increased power
and influence, and is seen as a worthwhile goal by most
players in the sector’s political games. For their part,
world governments are very aware that the right choice

