can benefit them greatly but also know that ultimately
they are pawns in the schemes of the great nobility.
Some worlds are extremely loyal and benefit from a close
relationship with their duke. Others balance the pros
and cons of cooperating with any given great noble. A
duke that wants to maintain control over these worlds
cannot lose sight of this fact.

OPERATING IN DENEB

Businesses, shipping lines and mercenary units must be
mindful of the local political conditions when operating
in Deneb. An apparently lucrative and
low-risk project can be suddenly derailed, putting
participants out of business. Conflicts may come to
a sudden end or expand greatly, changing the rules
of engagement or compromising the participants’
previously secure position.
The political dimension pervades all endeavours. For
example, a mercenary unit might be hired to carry out
an apparently simple task on a success-only contract,
then have to move its schedule to a breakneck pace
when peace negotiations break out. Client briefings
often include an estimate of the time available before
the likely political consequences occur and orders often
include a requirement to complete a mission before
intervention becomes a possibility. The most successful
mercenaries, shipping operators and businesses are
adept at forecasting the changeable political weather;
those who just hope for the best usually run into trouble.
Who a given company or unit does business with can
have serious implications. There might be a good reason
why a client is paying high salaries or offering big
bonuses; often this is because anyone taking the job
can expect never to work again in an entire subsector.
This political dimension can work in favour of operators,
of course. If a mercenary unit has no intention of ever
working for a particular client then the big payment to
take on a job against them – a job nobody else wants
– might be worth it. Likewise, the only shipping line
willing to run goods into a particular system will win
friends there and might even be part of changing the
political landscape a little.
The results of a decision tend to be important for
individuals and companies but small and subtle on the
interstellar politics scale. Breaking an embargo will not
cause a duchy to collapse and one successful rebellion
will not alter the course of history. For all that, those
willing to go against the flow have a chance to make a
real difference in Deneb – assuming they can survive the
consequences of their actions.

POWERS OF DENEB

Power is wielded in many different ways and from
different sources. The Imperial Navy can cut off a
world from outside trade and cripple its economy but a
corporation supplying critical components can hamper
the navy to the point where its choices are influenced
– openly or otherwise. Likewise, the sector dukes
and great nobility wield enormous power, with world
governments, corporations and research centres having
lesser or more localised influence.
Any use of power will fall somewhere on the ‘influenceforce continuum’, depending on how open the wielder
is willing (or needs) to be. Force is not just military
action. A refusal to handle specific tasks by port workers
is a use of force in this context – it is a direct and open
challenge to those who need the work done.
Money, of course, buys power. Again this can be overt, in
the form of warships and mercenary regiments, or it can
be much more subtle. A promise of investment can buy
the support of a world government; threatening to pull
out of a critical project can induce compliance. In this
context, corporations, and those members of the nobility
that control major business interests, may influence the
course of events in the sector more than those with the
biggest fleets.
As a general rule, force can be used to obtain a shortterm advantage but influence is required to cement
the gains. This might not be the case if the powers of
Deneb had free rein to do as they pleased, however they
do not. A duke might get away with occupying a couple
of worlds under the pretense of dealing with unrest or
revolt but attempting to conquer half a neighbouring
subsector will trigger an Imperial intervention with a
politely worded ‘request’ to visit Capital and present an
explanation. If the Imperium ever became weak enough
that it could not correct a duke who behaved this way –
perhaps distracted by a major war elsewhere or wracked
by internal conflict – then the subsector dukes might
try direct conquest. For the foreseeable future, however,
they play a careful game of political and economic
manipulation, with open warfare used as a threat but
rarely carried out.

THE IMPERIAL NAVY

As with other sectors, the Imperial Navy maintains a
three-tier system in Deneb. This consists of the sector
fleet, the subsector fleets and the misleadingly named
colonial fleet. There is also a reserve of ships that can
be recalled or reactivated as needed, although this

149

