force has no command structure of its own. Once ready
for service, ships of the reserve would be added to the
relevant sector or subsector commands, or formed into
new task forces under the command of senior officers
assigned by the sector admiral.
The sector fleet, named for the sector, contains all
capital ships assigned to the sector and most of the
cruisers. Its task is to deal with large-scale threats
and to this end the sector fleet is kept concentrated
at its main bases, with assets parcelled out to local
commands, as necessary, or detached to deal with major
incidents. The sector fleet is a peacetime administrative
apparatus. In wartime, additional fleets with specific
designations are usually formed (such as battle fleets or
strike fleets) using assets detached from the sector fleet,
with the sector fleet itself remaining as a reserve and
defensive asset for its home sector.
In addition to protecting Deneb from incursions by
major Vargr forces from coreward, the Deneb fleet acts
as a strategic reserve for the Spinward Marches. In the
event of an attack by the Zhodani Consulate or some
other power, heavy squadrons would be dispatched
to reinforce the Spinward Marches fleet or formed
into a battle fleet to deliver a powerful counterattack.
Meanwhile, additional forces would be expected to move
up from Corridor and the Imperial heartland. This would
inevitably take many weeks however, so the forces of the
Spinward Marches and Deneb would have to hold the
line until reinforcements arrived.
At any given time, some elements of the sector fleet
are absent from their bases, on joint exercises in the
Spinward Marches or reminding the worlds along the
frontier of the power and strength of the Imperium; a
squadron of battleships or heavy cruisers on a goodwill
visit makes a powerful statement but one that must be
repeated from time-to-time. Other heavy units might
be on internal deployment, visiting major worlds to
show the flag and remind subsector dukes that their
powerbase is insignificant compared to that of the
Imperium itself. Smaller ships, in the destroyer and
escort classes for the most part, will be out on patrol
augmenting the strength of the subsector fleets.
Whilst the sector fleet is tasked with warfighting and
deterring large-scale conflict, the subsector fleets
are charged with keeping the peace and protecting
commerce on the spacelanes. Most subsector fleets
have one or, at most, two vessels in the cruiser or
light carrier class as flagships, with most other vessels
in the destroyer or escort class. These ships tend to
be scattered all over the subsector on solo patrol or
in small task forces, maintaining a constant armed

150

presence on the spacelanes. Transit times to and from
patrol stations, along with the need to conduct training
and maintenance, mean that only a proportion of the
subsector fleet is on-station at any given time, with a
relatively small reserve of vessels ready at their bases to
respond to a crisis. However, incidents too serious for a
subsector fleet destroyer or escort squadron to deal with
are rare and support is always available from the sector
fleet’s assets.
Where the sector fleet’s commanders stand aloof from
the politics of their local area, subsector fleets are
subject to much stronger influence from their subsector
duke. Some subsector fleets in Deneb are more or less
in the pocket of the local duke, which in turn allows the
sector command to be manipulated by way of requests
coming up the chain of command.
The so-called colonial fleet (an archaic term from the
early days of the Imperium) is a command structure
overseeing all contributed forces that can be called
upon to assist the sector or subsector fleets. These
include the personal forces of nobles and planetary
navies that include jump-capable vessels, experimental
ships stationed at bases or research installations, escort
ships operated by merchant lines, mercenary vessels
on contract to the sector or subsector command, and
any independents who have been co-opted. The latter
often includes small merchant ships that receive a
reserve auxiliary stipend, allowing the navy to call them
to service as support craft and logistics assets. Scout
Service ships are sometimes loaned to the colonial fleet
to assist with naval operations.
Not all vessels of these types are part of the colonial
fleet. Indeed, many nobles and world governments
prefer to keep their warships private and not subject
to orders from fleet commanders. Others ‘keep a spare
hat’, as the saying goes, and pass in and out of colonial
fleet service as the need arises. Although colonial fleet
ships tend to be older or cheaper (in other words less
effective) designs and their crews may not be trained to
the standard of the Imperial Navy, they provide a useful
resource to cover more patrol stations.
A vessel in colonial fleet service has a navy transponder
code, and the full authority of the fleet, but is also
subject to its rules, regulations and chain of command.
It can thus be important to observe which hat a captain
is wearing, so to speak. A vessel in private hands can go
places and do things that one whose captain is wearing
his navy hat cannot.
The Imperial Navy’s main base in Deneb sector is at
Depot, in a star system formerly known as Sika’im.

