The Inar subsector was chosen for its central location,
positioning fleet assets and facilities where they could
react quickly to an incursion but far enough from the
border to make surprise attack unlikely. Despite the best
efforts of the subsector dukes – particularly Inar – the
sector fleet consciously maintains its distance from the
nobility of the region, not least since it is the duty of the
sector admiral to send his fleet against a duke who steps
too far out of line. If a limited war heats up to the point
that a duke considers using tactical nuclear or biological
weapons, or he attempts outright annexation of worlds,
the navy is expected to bring matters to an abrupt close.

THE DUKES

The Imperial nobility does not directly rule worlds,
except where a noble is also the head of the world
government. Nor do the great nobility rule clusters
of star systems or subsectors, as such. The nobility –
officially at least – administers its territory on behalf of
the Emperor and handles some aspects of governance
on behalf of the worlds in its care. Thus a subsector
duke is responsible for dispute resolution within his
area of influence and deals with what might be termed
foreign policy on behalf of his subsector. ‘Foreign’ in
this case can mean the next subsector over, which will
also be Imperial territory.
The duke will also provide direction to the Imperial
armed forces in his subsector, suggesting which trouble
spots should receive additional patrols and authorising
military action against factions damaging to the stability
of the subsector. The ideal is that the great nobility
provides leadership and sees the big picture where a
world government is more likely to concentrate on its
own affairs. This ideal assumes the great nobility pursue
the best interests of the worlds within their territory but
the reality is that the Dukes of Deneb put their
own position and agenda ahead of the well-being
of their people.
The dukes and other high nobility are extremely wealthy
and powerful, usually with business interests on many
worlds as well as their own personal armed forces and
privately owned territory. These assets are directly
controlled by the nobles and can be used as they see
fit, subject to restrictions imposed by Imperial High
Law. A duke or other high noble can be stripped of their
position but most of the great nobility come from old
families who have held their positions for centuries.
Although dukes officially administer and lead, rather
than rule, in practice the distinction can be hard to
see. A subsector duke has sufficient influence that he
can make life very difficult for a person, corporation or

government that does not obey his orders. There may be
no legal requirement to do as the duke says but it is an
open secret that those who do not obey will find their
contracts dry up and business collapses even if they do
not face direct censure.
The ability of any given subsector duke to control his
territory depends on his degree of power and influence
– strength creates more strength, by giving the duke the
means to harm those who do not obey him. Naturally,
opponents will try to undermine the strength of a duke’s
influence in the hope of rendering him ineffectual – if
corporation A feels it can ignore instructions to cut off
trade with world B, the subsector duke cannot use this
as a threat to force compliance. That in turn might cost
him control over research installation C, based on world
B, since the world government can no longer be coerced
into applying sanctions to the research facility.
The subsector dukes, and other great nobility of the
sector, know this well and are constantly watchful for
challenges to their position. They know their power
can be slowly chipped away, as well as catastrophically
smashed in head-on confrontation, and they know they
can do the same to their rivals. With no sector duke
in overall control, each subsector duke makes his own
policies. Maintaining position and increasing power is
high on that agenda, as is weakening rivals.
Control over the sector’s major worlds is the key to
power in Deneb. Proximity is a factor, since a duke finds
it easier to influence worlds that lie within his official
area of responsibility. The subsector duke has control
of ‘Imperial money’, a loose term for the assistance –
most of it in fact non-financial but all paid for from the
Imperial coffers – given to worlds by the Imperium. A
good assistance package can improve a world’s future;
refusing one or ensuring assistance is inadequate or
inappropriate can cripple an economy. This is a potent
tool in controlling local worlds but a subsector duke
cannot direct Imperial money to worlds outside his remit
– at least not directly.
Control over more distant worlds is achieved by indirect
means such as trade or industrial dependencies,
creating businesses or straightforward bribery. Some
dukes prefer intimidation, others work hard to earn the
loyalty of their subordinates and those whose allegiance
they want. The ultimate goal is to eclipse all other
subsector dukes and become the senior noble in the
sector. The title Duke of Deneb is within reach for at
least some of the subsector dukes and they all want to
ensure nobody else is given it.

151

