THE SEVEN DUCHIES

Each of Deneb’s seven duchies is different, with local
influences on its policies and practices. All have their
own forces loyal to the duke and his family, and a large
administrative staff who handle the affairs of the duchy.
These assets are augmented mercenaries or freelancers
as necessary. This is sometimes done to conceal the
duke’s involvement in an action but often the allegiance
of freelancers is openly declared. Some mercenary units
have been on contract to a duke for so long they have
become a symbol of the duchy but, more commonly,
assets are hired and fired as needed.

The Duchy of Pretoria

The Duchy of Pretoria lies on the Imperial border and must
contend with Vargr raids coming from coreward as well
as by way of the Aramis Trace, a cluster of star systems
close to the Imperial border in the neighbouring Aramis
subsector. The duke’s personal forces are sometimes sent
into Aramis – not always with the blessing of its nobility –
to deal with corsair bases or block well-used routes. The
Pretoria subsector fleet cannot operate outside its home
area without special permission but ducal forces are not
subject to such restrictions.
The Duke of Pretoria is generally more concerned with
the security of his borders than attempting to gain more
power in Deneb, yet is concerned with such efforts on
the part of others. He typically acts in co-operation with
the Duke of Sabine, while affairs along the Aramis Trace
are handled by Count Urnas.
Pretoria maintains a large ducal fleet by the standards
of the Imperium. Most vessels are what might be
termed ‘corsair-killers’, lightly protected but with heavy
firepower for their size. The majority are small and of
little value in battle with major warships. However,
since the average corsair is a converted merchant ship
or an escort-sized warship this is not a drawback. The
fleet includes two obsolescent cruisers that are used to
show the duke’s flag across the border in Vargr space,
along with a very old, but still capable, battleship. This
vessel is often assigned to the subsector’s colonial fleet
but sometimes serves as a mobile ducal residence. The
phrase ‘like the Duke’s yacht’ is a common colloquialism

MAP OF THE
DUCHIES AND
THEIR AREAS
OF CONTROL

in Pretoria subsector, denoting something far too big,
powerful or expensive for its purpose.

The Duchy of Antra

The Duchy of Antra is in a weak position and has been
so for a very long time, in part due to the machinations
of Inar and Atsah, who undermine the Duke of Antra’s
position at every turn. The problem is compounded
by Vargr incursions across the border, which keep the
subsector fleet busy. It is an open secret that Antra pays
corsairs to stay out of its territory, which improves the
security situation at the price of making the duke look
even weaker than he is.
The Duke of Antra is particularly hostile to Inar, a result
of a long history of blatant actions against Antra by Inar.
By way of retaliation, Antra has taken to granting letters
of marque and reprisal to corsairs and even pardoning
captured raiders in return for an agreement to act
against Inar. In this, the duke is sailing very close to the
wind. Not only does he risk Imperial displeasure if ‘his’
corsairs are deemed to be pirates rather than legitimate
privateers but his actions risk a naval response from
Inar, which will almost certainly ignite a shooting war.
Antra’s ducal fleet favours multirole vessels, with room for
a troop contingent aboard or to carry stores for disaster
relief. Whilst this reduces the fleet’s ship-for-ship fighting
power it enables a flexible response to be made in many
situations and ships with generous accommodation or the
ability to carry a lot of supplies can stay on station for
longer than vessels with more ‘teeth’.

The Duchy of Sabine

Lying to rimward of Pretoria, the Duchy of Sabine does
not have an external frontier and can concentrate more
fully on internal matters, which typically means power
struggles with Inar and Vincennes. Relations with
Pretoria, and with Rhylanor and Mora in the Spinward
Marches, are generally cooperative.
Sabine’s position is hampered by dissent between the
ducal seat at Magash and the military centre at Thengin.
Nearby world governments align themselves according
to conditions – if there is a military threat then
Thengin is suddenly more attractive but otherwise most
governments follow the general lead of the Duke
at Magash.
Sabine’s ducal fleet favours a smaller number of
destroyer-sized vessels over escorts. Ships are wellmaintained and their crews highly trained by ex-Imperial
Navy personnel hired as instructors. It is generally
supposed that Sabine hopes to offset the technological
superiority of Vincennes by investing in its people.

153

