The Duchy of Inar

Inar is the most powerful of Deneb’s duchies, although
the complexities of interstellar politics make it difficult
to state an exact ratio. However, it is commonly
accepted that Inar wields at least as much influence as
the duchies of Atsah and Vincennes combined. Warships
and regiments are easier to count and here again Inar
can field at least twice the tonnage and numbers of its
nearest rival. Raw figures do not necessarily translate to
fighting power but the ability of Inar to show the flag in
more places at once contributes greatly to its impact on
the affairs of the sector.
Inar shares a border with Vincennes, which is
characterised by endless manoeuvring for position. In
the past, these two powers were briefly allied but today
their relationship is adversarial at best.

Political Gambits: Routiers

Most mercenary forces are properly licensed,
professional and reasonably reliable. They tend
to have an eye to the future, aware that a unit’s
reputation determines where the next job comes
from and how grim it might be. Units with a good
reputation command a high fee and pick their jobs.
Those without a track record may have to take
whatever work they can get. This can lead to being
fed into a meatgrinder by unscrupulous clients or
used to undertake distasteful tasks. The nobility of
Deneb make use of mercenaries on a regular basis
and will pay premium prices to keep a particularly
good unit out of someone else’s service.
However, some will use mercenaries for a slightly
different purpose. The term ‘routier’, originating
on old Terra, has connotations of unreliability and
low quality in Deneb. Mercenaries of this sort are
sometimes hired for an ostensibly valid task –
such as protecting aid workers on a nearby world
– and then suddenly paid off due to ‘changing
requirements’. This dumps large numbers of poorly
trained, armed and often criminally inclined men
and women into the local equation, with the result
that at least some will turn to crime and banditry
in order to make a living and get offworld.
The ‘routier gambit’ is an effective and
low-cost way of destabilising an area and
causing trouble for the opposition. Often, the local
authorities will have no option but to hire some of
the routiers to fight their former comrades, with
predictably poor results.

154

The ducal fleet contains a handful of cruisers supported
by a large number of smaller vessels. As is typical of
naval forces in private service, these vessels are mostly
of older design but the Duke of Inar seems to have
obtained two up-to-date Amara-class heavy cruisers.
These are shown off at every opportunity, often
operating together or at the centre of a task force
including light carriers as well. Inar’s ducal fleet
actually outguns the local subsector fleet, although a
confrontation is highly unlikely.

The Duchy of Atsah

Atsah has strong trade links with Corridor and the
Imperial heartland beyond, and gets first pick of goods
coming into Deneb from that direction. This gives the
duke considerable extra leverage, on top of an already
powerful domestic position, and Atsah more or less
dominates the Million subsector to coreward and can
prevent rivals running trade convoys around Atsah’s
territory if it chooses to do so. Influence over the
Dunmag subsector is less but still considerable.
One consequence of this is that whilst the Duke of Atsah
has a very considerable private navy, it is stretched thin.
Like Pretoria, Atsah cannot use the Imperial subsector
fleet to pursue its own agenda – although sometimes
the fleet’s commanders can be prevailed upon to assist
Imperial forces in Million or Dunmag, and the duke
makes sure he gets credit. Ducal forces spend a lot of
their time dispersed on flag-showing missions or being
seen to deal with local problems that the Imperial fleet
and the other dukes have taken no notice of.
Atsah’s primary naval assets are converted destroyers,
most of which have had their armament reduced in
favour of improved accommodation for increased
time on station. These ships routinely undertake very
long deployments, sweeping through several systems
or accompanying large freighters, liners or convoys
of smaller ships as they pass through surrounding
subsectors. Maintenance of these ships tends to be
skimpy due to their constant deployment but a can-do
attitude prevails among their crews.

The Duchy of Vincennes

Vincennes, the ducal seat of the Vincennes subsector, is
one of the single most powerful worlds in the Imperium,
wielding twice the economic, industrial and military
might of Starn, the next most powerful world in Deneb.
The availability of TL16 goods allows the Duke of
Vincennes to reward his supporters or weaken those
relying upon equipment supplied and maintained by
Vincennes. This high-tech carrot-and-stick approach
works well but occasionally damages exports as end
clients are reluctant to buy goods that might not be
supported when they come to order spares.

