The Duke of Vincennes has what might be termed as a
robust policy regarding the affairs of his subsector and
its surroundings. The duchy tries to have at least one
finger in every conceivable pie and is not afraid to make
an example of a world or faction that opposes it. This is
particularly true for those who shift their support to the
neighbouring Duchy of Inar.
The Vincennes ducal fleet is a mix of standard and
custom vessels, with many otherwise standard designs
augmented with a TL16 components. Experimental
ships or vessels acting as testbeds for emerging
technologies are not uncommon, with the ducal fleet
more than willing to try its advanced systems in combat.

The Duchy of Usani

Although it contains the sector capital, Deneb, the
Duchy of Usani is politically and economically weak. Its
astrographical position, on the shore of the Great Rift, is
in some ways an advantage – there is little to worry about
in that direction – but it does limit trade from the Imperial
heartland. Goods from trailing arrive by way of shipping
from Dunmag as a result of the sparsity of worlds in the
rimward end of Atsah. The combination of a three-parsec
gap and manipulation of trade by the Duchy of Atsah
pinches off the flow of commerce from this direction.
As much as possible, Usani prefers to ally with the Duke
of Inar against Vincennes. However, its weak position
means its stance must shift from time-to-time. Relations
with other duchies can vary considerably, with Usani
doing what it has to rather than purely acting in its own
best interests.
The Usani ducal fleet contains few warships, mostly
small escorts, although it does operate a number of
armed merchant cruisers and merchant carriers. These
vessels are well suited to commerce protection – and
some would say also to raiding the commerce of other
subsectors – but would not stand up to a major warship.
However, their ability to carry cargo whilst maintaining
a deterrent presence on the spacelanes makes having a
fleet of sorts attainable to the cash-strapped duchy.

The Duchy of Zeng

The Duchy of Zeng is in a similar astrographical position
to Usani but benefits from good relations with Trin in
the Spinward Marches. Trin is not a competitor for the
title of Sector Duke of Deneb, for obvious reasons, so
deals with Zeng in straight economic-benefit terms.
The concentration of most of the duchy’s worlds into a
central cluster also has significant advantages in terms
of trade and political influence.

Zeng is highly influential in the Gulf subsector and
officially administers the handful of systems in Macon.
The duchy is seen as ‘not really a player’ in the great
game of dominance over Deneb. Lying out on the fringes
and distant from the sector’s politics in more than just
astrographical terms, Zeng is not perceived as a threat
by the other duchies and thus enjoys better relations
than most others. It generally cooperates with Usani
and Atsah, and has a neutral position towards the other
duchies most of the time.
Zeng’s ducal fleet is typical, with a single old cruiser as
flagship and a handful of destroyers of varying designs,
supported by a much larger number of escorts and patrol
vessels. Most of the time these ships are seconded to
the colonial fleet and serve as commerce protection
assets with the Imperial Navy.

CORPORATIONS

All of the Imperial megacorporations have interests in
Deneb, just to varying degrees. The megacorporations
produce such a variety of goods, and handle such huge
volumes of trade in items, information and financial
assets, that their influence can be felt almost anywhere.
On any given world, at least some of the goods in the
shops have been produced in megacorporate-owned
factories or transported on ships built or operated by the
megacorproations. In many cases, starports have been
built with megacorporate money.
At the very least, these huge firms have an interest
in keeping markets open and increasing their share
– possibly at the expense of their rivals. Any political
machinations that affect their business will be
opposed by the megacorporations to the fullest extent
and they have a variety of means at their disposal.
All megacorporations and most larger corporations
are associated with noble families that have very
considerable influence
Although their holdings are more dispersed than those of
a sector duke, the megacorporations are more powerful
in most ways. Their wealth and ability to influence
governments through economic pressure are immense.
Megacorporations also have their own ships and security
forces – or can hire them on the mercenary market – and
are quite willing to use them.
Some megacorporations have major interests in
Deneb and can be considered additional players on
the political field. Even subsector dukes are wary of
a direct clash with megacorporations, with the result
that megacorporate vessels will sometimes sail blithely
through an armed standoff and industrial enclaves are
safe havens even whilst a ground war is raging nearby.

155

