GSbAG

GSbAG is almost exclusively a starship manufacturer,
with a reputation for high-quality vessels that command
an equally high price. It has no specific centre of
power but maintains shipyards at some of the high-end
starports in the sector. A showcase facility is planned, at
a location yet to be chosen. Naturally, most major worlds
of the sector – and all of the duchies – are vying for
the lucrative position of host. The facility will produce
high-end military vessels for the Imperial Navy as well as
yachts and liners for prestige clients.

Hortalez et Cie

Delgado

Delgado directly operates numerous mining operations
in Deneb, along with supporting industries such as
ore and chemical refining. Its facilities are typically
in heavily industrialised systems, notably asteroid and
planetoid belts. Whilst not a player in the dominance
games of the sector, Delgado is willing to take advantage
of the situation wherever it can, quietly buying out a
troubled mining outpost then using its corporate nearinvulnerability to turn the fortunes of its new acquisition
around. This gambit has backfired a few times but
megacorporations can afford to invest where others dare
not and Delgardo is exploiting the situation to increase
its share of the mining industry in Deneb.

General Products

General Products is active in several market sectors,
notably heavy industry and starship construction. The
latter has suffered lately with a series of poor designs
and embarrassing failures, a situation General is keen
to reverse. To this end, it has taken to offering basic
warships and trade vessels at low prices, resulting in
an upsurge in small-scale trading – and occasionally an
increase in piracy preying on the abundant shipping.
These vessels are not particularly good but provide an
affordable patrol force to a cash-strapped client and
can get goods from A to B almost as well as a more
expensive ship. General Products does not have a centre
of power in Deneb but maintains shipbuilding facilities
at several of the region’s better starports.

156

Hortalez specialises in finance and banking rather
than physical goods and has brokerages in most
major starports. It is not clear if Hortalez is a player
in the political arena or not, due to complex chains of
transactions that disguise many of its major dealings.
However, it is obvious that Hortalez et Cie is keen to
support any faction that keeps trade lanes open and
money flowing. To that end, the megacorporation is
thought to be a stabilising influence, exerting steady
pressure for moderation on all factions. Its mediators
have assisted in the negotiation of several important
peace treaties, favouring fair deals that reduce chance
of further conflict.

Instellarms

Instellarms produces high-end military hardware,
selling to mercenary forces, governments and similar
bulk clients. It does not deal in single weapons but
in high-volume equipping contracts that include
weaponry, ammunition, spares and training. Instellarms
supplies many of the better mercenary formations
and some subsector dukes with their hardware, on a
scrupulously neutral basis. Those with the cash can
buy from Instellarms unless the sale would be illegal; a
noble under Imperial censure or a mercenary unit with
questionable paperwork will be refused a sale but those
in good standing do not have to provide a reason for
wanting to buy arms.

