Schunamann und Sohn, AG LIC (SuSAG)

S T A N D A R D

P R O D U C T S

LIC

Ling Standard Products (LSP)

LSP is mainly active in the mining, industrial and
shipbuilding sectors, typically producing mid-range
vessels at a reasonable price. LSP has shipyards on
a few worlds in Deneb and large mining operations
in several systems. A notable concentration exists in
Pretoria, which draws LSP into the political arena when
Pretoria is threatened by its rivals. In general, LSP has
a good relationship with the Duke of Pretoria and has
occasionally been loaned a few ducal ships to escort its
trans-border trading operations out into the Vargr worlds
to coreward.

Makhidkarun

Makhidkarun produces luxury goods and items of great
sophistication such as data processing equipment and
robots. It is active all over the sector but maintains a
major facility on Vincennes, where the megacorporation
develops next-generation communications equipment
and robotics. A subsidiary operates some of the most
prestigious liners in the sector, which act as travelling
showrooms for the very latest in top-end electronics,
robotics and luxury goods.

SuSAG is highly active in the chemical, pharmaceutical
and engineering market sectors. Most of its products
are commonplace, including many trusted brands, and
its engineers have assisted in the constriction of several
starports and other major facilities. SuSAG is involved in
research into biochemical warfare and, although its PR
arm makes much of the ‘defences and protection’ aspect
of this activity, the firm does attract bad press. SuSAG
makes some of the best hostile environment equipment
available but is widely thought to use this as a cover for
weapons research. It maintains small research facilities
in remote parts of various star systems, heavily guarded
and very secretive.

Sharurshid

Sharurshid is primarily a shipping operator, although
it uses these vessels to facilitate trade in a vast array
of goods. Sharurshid is a constant voice for restraint in
Deneb and has been known to apply economic pressure
to those dukes who allow piracy and disruption of trade
to interfere with business. Most of Sharurshid’s vessels
are large freighters, plying the lanes right across the
sector from one border to the other. It does not favour
any candidates for sector duke but does lobby for the
appointment of one, as a more unified sector would
mean more stable trading conditions. Sharurshid has a
major regional office at Deneb, although few of its ships
travel there.

Naasirka

Naasirka is an electronics giant, unable to compete with
Makhidkarun for the top end of the market but dominant
at the mid-level and low-end. Naasirka has numerous
government contracts, including standard systems
for the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service. Naasirka’s
public image in Deneb is of straightforward industrialists
producing highly useful products for everyone, which is
not totally inaccurate. Its spokespeople can be expected
to urge calm and restraint to all factions in every conflict
that breaks out and the megacorporation is widely
known to fund relief operations when the shooting stops.
Naasirka makes no secret of the fact that this is good
long-term business – if the lights go black on using
Naasirka equipment, then those people will buy
Naasirka when it comes to keeping them on. Critics
claim that Naasirka is profiting from instability and
conflict and the firm typically replies that it is merely
adapting to the current business climate.

SHARURSHID

157

