Sternmetal Horizons

ZO

ET
M
N

RI
N

ER

O
S

ST

H

A

L

Sternmetal has always been a major player in the mining
and manufacturing sectors, and was one of the original
heavy investors in the sector. Its power generation and
food production equipment is in use on a great many
worlds, with the company’s research division finding
innovative ways to make otherwise inedible substances
palatable and nutritious. Despite aiming for a reputation
as ‘the colonist’s friend’ Sternmetal has a reputation for
hard-nosed business practices and puts living conditions
far below profit on its many mining installations across
the sector.

Tukera Lines

Tukera Lines is a shipping operator, concerned mainly
with major trade routes. It has offices on most worlds
with a good port and large facilities where trade routes
meet. Tukera operates a larger proportion of jump-3
and jump-4 capable vessels than most other shipping
firms and has a useful sideline in getting information
and people to the right place, fast. Its fast-courier
network supplements the Imperial x-boat system but
is made available only to those clients favoured by the
megacorporation. Tukera openly supports the Duke of
Atsah in his bid to become Duke of Deneb.

Zirunkariish

Zirunkariish is a financial and investment corporation,
with offices at major ports on the main trade routes. It
does not deal with minor clients but can put together
huge investment packages for those with the resources
to afford them. Zirunkariish is hard-nosed in its dealings
and has shown itself quite willing to bankroll both
sides in a conflict. This actually makes it a force for
a sort of stability, as a crushing defeat may prevent a
faction from repaying creditors. Zirunkariish is openly
profiting from the state of conflict in the region and in
more than one way. It provides secure currency transfer
and escrow services for major purchases of military
hardware, hiring of mercenary forces and so forth. This
means that Zirunkariish has to move shiploads of gold,
hard currency and other precious items, creating a very
attractive target for pirates but mostly it deals in reliable
electronic transfers of funds.

158

MINOR STATES

AND POWERS

Outside the duchies, but within the Imperial border,
most worlds are individual members of the Imperium,
although some are part of multi-world counties. The
nobles who administer these counties have nowhere
near the power wielded by an Imperial duke but manage
to exert some influence over surrounding systems. There
are also individual worlds powerful enough to exert
influence. These have nobles assigned to them but it
is the world government that holds the power, not the
nobles who act as representatives to the Imperium.
Parts of the sector lie outside the Imperium and the
attitude of these worlds varies considerably. Some are
Imperial client states, either because they wish to be
or because the Imperium has made them dependent
for strategic reasons. Others chance their allegiances.
Many of these worlds are populated primarily or wholly
by Vargr and are heavily influenced by the politics of the
larger Vargr states to coreward.
There are also a number of powerful entities in the
sector that are not states or world governments. Like
corporations, these organiastions, movements and
networks exert influence in many areas and may
have enclaves within the territory of a duchy or
other major power.

The Humbolts

The former Dukes of Vincennes were enormously rich
and powerful, enjoying the support of many worlds in
the sector. After they chose the losing side in the Civil
War, the Humbolts’ power was broken and their assets
were seized – all that could be found, anyway. Their
fleet was chased down, brought to action and destroyed.
However, it is not possible to say how many members of
the family escaped and what they took with them.
Today, the Humbolts are the subject of dozens of
conspiracy theories and blamed for all manner of
setbacks, problems and outbreaks of unrest. They are
also used as a threat to manipulate public opinion –
‘better get this legislation through its democratic review
process before the Humbolts finish their sneaky plans to
take control over the krill-protein processing industry’.
It is known that some members of the Humbolt family
fled beyond the Imperium and some of their supporters
funnelled money and hardware to them. It is not clear
how many of former allies and supporters were sincere
in their conversion to the new order but five centuries
have passed. This is long enough for the Humbolts to
have carved out an empire somewhere or been wiped out
by a string of misfortunes. The situation is obfuscated
further by the plethora of ‘false Humbolts’.

