These include entirely fictitious allegations that the
Humbolts are threatening the stability of the Imperium
by measures that must be opposed by following
someone’s agenda as well as real groups trying to exploit
the Humbolt legend to legitimise their own endeavours.
The conspiracy theorists are adamant that Humbolt
agents and high-ranking members of the family are
in positions of power across the sector and beyond,
and that these ‘false Humbolts’ are actually real.
The premise behind these claims is that it serves the
Humbolts’ purposes for everyone to discount rumours of
their activities as ‘just another false Humbolt’ and that
they are behind every event in the sector.
The reality of the matter is that there are some remnants
of the Humbolts’ powerbase in Deneb and they did
succeed in establishing enclaves elsewhere. These
groups have evolved over time. Some have collapsed and
others have left behind the ‘Humbolt legacy’ to pursue
other aims. However, there are family members and
close allies in Deneb who are working towards someday
restoring the family to its lost glory. They are willing to
support a cause they believe in, or which furthers their
agenda, and may give arms or money to rebels against
groups that had a hand in their destruction long ago.
The surviving Humbolts have long memories and an
unknown level of power or influence. They cannot
possibly be as active as conspiracy theorists like to
believe, or else they would have already taken over the
sector, but they do have local powerbases and a plan. It
is possible this is disrupted by the individual ambitions
of these Humbolt successors, who may well be working
against one another as well as towards their final goal.

The Lurent

The Lurent are a minor race native to Borlund but their
trade ships are sufficiently widespread that they have
become a power of sorts in the sector’s politics.
By the time the Imperium contacted them, the Lurent
had reached TL8 and were already outfitting planetoid
ships to undertake mining operations in their outsystem
and Oort cloud. Trade with the Imperium allowed the
Lurent to quickly attain TL9, and soon planetoid ships
had been outfitted with jump drives.
Lurent planetoid vessels are typically enormous, being
mobile bases rather than starships. A given vessel may
have a population in the tens of millions, including nonLurent. Rather than proceeding directly to a mainworld,
these wandering planetoid colonies usually emerge near
a star system’s Oort cloud, to refuel and negotiate trade
agreements with potential clients. Trade is undertaken

'Lurent' merchant symbol

by sublight craft, although sometimes conventional
jump-capable ships are used for in-system transits.
In some systems, especially those with very bright stars,
the Lurent may remain in the outsystem for the duration
of their stay. Elsewhere, their gigantic ship will slowly
spiral inward, eventually taking up orbit around one of
the system’s major planets. The Lurent rarely seem to
be in a hurry; a planetoid ship might spend years in a
system’s Oort cloud, conducting long-range trade, and
then suddenly jump out for an unknown destination.
Lurent ships do not always advertise their presence.
Some will remain in-system for years, often undetected
in the far outsystem. Usually, the ship’s leaders will
want to trade but if they do not then the ship will go
about its business without regard to outsiders. This
makes some world governments suspicious but there
are no records of unprovoked attacks by Lurent vessels.
When they do choose to make war, it is usually on
corsairs and similarly deserving recipients, and almost
always through mercenaries rather than directly.
The trading vessels of the Lurent exert considerable
influence on the systems they visit and have the
capability to transport personnel and even large ships
across the sector without attracting attention. The
Lurent are quite happy to sell this capability like any
other commodity.

159

