The United Followers of Augurgh (UFA)

Despite its name, the UFA is not all that united, nor
are its members all followers of the overall leader.
It is a rather loose alliance of world governments
and other organisations, some of them unofficial in
nature. The UFA was founded on the world of Augurgh
in the Aegaek subsector around 1090, although
accounts vary as to exactly when it became a political
movement to be taken seriously. It was initially a
pro-Augurgh movement intended to increase control
over neighbouring worlds in Provence sector but grew
beyond the expectations of its founders.

Deneb has a number of unique locations whose
existence may be known several sectors away. Most
notable of these is the supergiant star Deneb itself,
which is sufficiently bright to be used as a navigational
calibration point from hundreds of parsecs away and
is visible in daylight on many worlds. A segment of the
Great Rift runs through Deneb and is notable for the
opposite reason – it is a region with few or no stars that
presents a major barrier to navigation

Phenomena

Augurgh’s emissaries managed to gain the loyalty of
various political factions, corsair bands and trading
alliances, although some joined the movement more due
to favours owed than allegiance to Augurgh. With this
large but thinly-spread powerbase, Augurgh was able to
apply pressure to other world governments in the Million
and Aegeak subsectors.

A number of stellar and interstellar phenomena exist,
notably the giant star Deneb and Minde’s Star in the
Inar subsector. Both are used as calibration points by
navigators, for different reasons. Deneb is visible from
a great distance and easily detectable by instruments,
whereas the unpredictable variations in the luminosity
of Minde’s Star make it stand out as an anomaly.

The UFA today claims the loyalty of a chain of worlds
stretching all the way to the Imperial border and has
significant influence over some Imperial worlds in
the Million subsector. Loyalty is claimed rather than
concrete, with member worlds breaking away at times
or groups withdrawing their allegiance. This sometimes
leads to internal conflict or policy decisions made more
with the aim of placating disaffected supporters than
with the best interests of its members.

In addition, there are other phenomena of interest to
Travellers. Most are of a typical sort – rifts and mains –
but there are a few exceptions.

The UFA maintains the trappings of a legitimate
and stable interstellar state, modelling many of its
institutions on those of the Imperium. It has a formally
organised navy, although this is composed mainly of
donated vessels and subject to mutinies as a faction
decides to leave the UFA and withdraws its forces.
The UFA is also quite happy to use piracy, raiding and
organised crime to influence governments and increase
support. In this, it at times can seem more like a
protection racket than a multiworld government.
It is possible to deal with the UFA as a normal
interstellar state and agreements are upheld unless
internal politics requires a different approach. However,
the UFA is a dangerous neighbour to have – stable
enough to take concerted action but prone to rapid
changes in policy or deliberate flouting of its rules by
rebellious members.

160

PLACES OF INTEREST

Jump Bridges

Jump bridges are deep-space refuelling stations serving
commercial traffic. Normally constructed on or close to
an ice asteroid or comet, their role is to allow jump-1
ships to cross a gap between mains or clusters. This
means making a jump to deep space, which must be
very precise to avoid being stranded. Few astrogators
like using jump bridges since it means betting the lives
of everyone on board on a perfect plot with no random
factors to cause variance. In reality, using a jump bridge
is only slightly more hazardous than a normal jump,
although the stakes are higher and this can be wearing
on the nerves over time.
Jump bridges are very similar to any other starport,
although they tend to have large docking areas for
tankers or shuttles bringing in asteroidal ice for
conversion into fuel. Facilities vary from extremely
utilitarian to positively luxurious. The bridges located
close to Pretoria are showcases of excellence to rival
any planetary port; this was quite deliberate, as the
Dukes of Pretoria wanted to attract interstellar trade
and were prepared to invest heavily in making the
experience of using the bridges as pleasant as possible.
Other jump bridges exist elsewhere but are generally of
a lower standard.

