Jumping to a Bridge

It is only possible to use a jump bridge if its position
is precisely known and the astrogator must have an
extremely accurate set of coordinates. In the case
of commercial jump bridges these are available at
nearby starports and are constantly updated.
Jumping to a jump bridge requires an extremely
tight jump plot, requiring a Difficult (10+)
Astrogation check. Most astrogators will offset
this difficulty by taking longer over the plot. The
alternative is to buy a template jump solution from
a nearby starport. Most ports within one jump of
the bridge will have them for sale. The usual cost is
Cr500 but in some cases the plot is discounted, or
even free, to encourage use of the bridge. Using a
pre-generated solution still requires finalisation but
this is a Routine (6+) Astrogation check.
Ideally, ships jump directly to the jump bridge and
emerge very close to it. Standard manoeuvre drives
perform very poorly in deep space, so a ship that has
to navigate to the bridge after emergence may take
some time to get there. Most bridges used manned
or robotic tugs to bring in ships that arrive too far
out to reach the bridge within a few hours. These
tugs are equipped with reaction drives or deep-space
manouvring systems to permit efficient operation.
The Effect of the Astrogation check indicates how
close to the bridge the vessel arrives.
Jump Bridge Variance
Effect
Variance
6 or better Perfect jump. Docking in 4D minutes
4-5
Excellent jump. Docking in 2D hours
2-3
Good jump. Docking in 4D hours
1
Adequate jump. Docking in 1D days
0
Poor jump. Docking in 2D days
-1 or
Disaster!
worse
These times assume a vessel moving under its own
power using a standard drive. A vessel towed by tugs
or using reaction drives can make the approach in
half the time.
A vessel suffering a Disaster does not emerge
close to the jump bridge. It may be able to crawl
across the intervening gap over a period of weeks
or months if its power and supplies do not run out,
or be rescued by a reaction-drive ship if one is
available. If not, the occupants face a slow death
– quite possibly within sensor and comms range of
the jump bridge but beyond any hope of rescue.

Jumping Through the Sargasso

Any vessel charting a course through the Dunmag
Sargasso suffers DM-1D to the crew’s Engineering
and Astrogation (determine separately for each)
checks to jump. The cumulative Effect of these
checks is used to determine if something untoward
has occurred.
Effect
-10 or lower
-9 to -6
-6 to -3
-2 to 0
1+

Result
Trapped
Major Variance
Minor Variance
Slight Variance
No Variance

Variance indicates an increase in jump duration and
emergence position:
Slight: Jump duration is increased by 2D-2 hours;
this is often too small to be noticed. Emergence
position will be off by 2Dx10 diameters.
Minor: Duration is increased by 4D hours.
Emergence is off by 2Dx100 diameters.
Major: Duration is increased by 2D-1 days.
Emergence is off by 2Dx1,000 diameters
A ship that suffers a Trapped result emerges from
jump within the Sargasso gas cloud after a normal
jump duration. Escape may depend upon finding
some suitable source of fuel, perhaps scavenged
from a less fortunate vessel.

