Lurent Planetoid Ships

The giant planetoid ships of the Lurent can occasionally
be encountered in the inner system, or even in orbit
around a mainworld, but far more commonly remain in
the far outsystem or Oort cloud, sending smaller and more
conventional vessels to trade with the worlds of the system.
Lurent presence is usually quite obvious, with several
of their craft and ships moving back and forth, and the
planetoid parent vessel broadcasting on many channels.
However, sometimes a planetoid ship will quietly
move through the Oort cloud, perhaps observing local
conditions before announcing its presence or ensuring
it has sufficient fuel to depart before opening trade
relations. It has been speculated that some ships may
lie in the outsystem for years, for purposes known only
to their crews. Some older Lurent planetoid ships have
no jump drives and are still in the middle of a long
sublight transit. The population will not be in low berths
– the ship is a living community, sending those who
feel the need to head homeward aboard jump-capable
vessels and receiving new personnel and supplies at
planned rendezvous points. More than one Lurent ship
has acted as a jump bridge for years at it crosses the
gap between mains at a relative crawl compared to the
jump-capable ships that visit it to obtain fuel.

162

The Dunmag Sargasso

An area within the Dunmag subsector is designated as
a sargasso; a region that blocks jump travel or makes it
more hazardous. The Dunmag Sargasso is not hazardous
compared to similar phenomena elsewhere but it still
traps the occasional starship.
The Dunmag Sargasso is thought to have been created
when two rogue gas giants collided in deep space,
strewing low-density gas throughout the surrounding
region. The gas cloud is just dense enough to interfere
with jump operations, although most ships pass by with
no harm or experience only mild effects such as slightly
longer jump times, rough emergence or greater variance
in the emergence point, such that the ship may need
to make a transit in normal space of a day or two rather
than arriving directly at the target world.
However, the Dunmag Sargasso is said to have trapped
hundreds of starships over the centuries. There is little
scientific data available but spacers bar-room tales
speak of lost Imperial and alien ships, including species
never seen elsewhere in Charted Space. The speaker
usually knows someone who met a crewmember of a
ship that got stuck and made an incredible escape but
could not bring anything back to prove the story. Details

