of how the ship got out of the sargasso and reached an
inhabited system are usually rather vague.

Naval Fuel Depots

In the event that war breaks out in the Spinward
Marches, elements of the Deneb and Corridor sector
fleets will be transferred to reinforce the local fleet. This
is an immense undertaking, requiring months, at best,
and much longer if the fleet has to stop to refuel along
the way. To facilitate these large-scale redeployments,
a series of deep-space fuel caches has been deployed.
The fleet will jump to these rather than inhabited star
systems and tankers can collect fuel from the caches to
get ahead of the fleet and provide rapid refuelling.
This system allows the Imperial Navy to make best use
of its standard jump-4 capability, whereas using the
normal spacelanes might restrict the fleet to an average
of 3 parsecs or less per jump. It does, however, absorb
considerable manpower just to keep caches stocked
and maintained, and deployments are dull and lonely.
The existence of the caches is supposedly secret but
too many naval personnel have mustered out after
pulling a hitch at one for their existence and location
to remain completely secret. Without very precise
coordinates, no other ship could find a cache other than
by extremely careful long-range sensor operations using
high-quality equipment. Thus, caches are kept secure
by the vastness of space (although, in theory, a location
could be obtained from a disabled naval vessel’s secure
computer archives).
The caches are enormous, but made up of little more
than fuel tanks plus a docking station for tugs and
support craft. They are used by the navy’s courier
network from time-to-time – enough fuel for one jump-6
courier will never be noticed – enabling the fleet to not
only move information fast but to do so without anyone
knowing a courier has passed. This capability lies at the
heart of all manner of conspiracy theories, although in
reality most urgent messages that pass this way deal
with minor situations requiring a lone cruiser rather than
all-out war with some major power.

The Pagamin Graveyards

Pagamin, in Dunmag, was the site of a major naval
battle in close orbit. The region around the mainworld
is designated a war grave, as are cemeteries on-planet

where the dead are laid to rest. Dozens of wrecked
ships still orbit Pagamin, slowly being salvaged by
licensed operations who must extract the bodies of
their crews with due ceremony before beginning work
on the vessel.
It is known that unlicensed scavengers also pick over the
starship graveyard, seeking components or valuables for
resale. These crews are less than respectful of the living
and dead alike; fights between licensed salvage crews
and scavengers are not uncommon. Rumours abound
that the base on Pagamin that was at the centre of the
battle contained something both sides were desperate to
deny the other and that Pagamin was pounded flat from
orbit to eliminate it. If so, some trace of whatever it was
might be found aboard one of the wrecks.

Gas-Sharks

Gas-sharks are native to the atmosphere of several gas
giant worlds within Deneb and elsewhere in Charted
Space. They may be the same species that has somehow
spread throughout the universe or could be an example
of parallel evolution. Either way, gas-sharks do not
resemble any form of aquatic creature; their name is
fanciful but has stuck. They take the form of a cloud of
dense gaseous matter or vapour, which does not appear
to contain any organs or anything similar in function.
Gas-sharks are mildly corrosive and can eat their way
into a starship given time. However, they are more likely
to enter through fuel scoops or attach themselves to the
hull of a vessel that enters their territory.
Gas-sharks feed on a variety of chemicals present in a
gas giant’s atmosphere, metabolising them by breaking
down organic matter and some inorganic compounds.
Among these are lubricants and seals used in many
types of shipboard equipment. A gas-shark can be
disrupted (say by passing through a fuel filter) but will
reform, apparently unharmed, in a matter of hours.
Very little is known about these creatures, other than
they are dangerous. There are reports of contact with
them all over the sector but no reliable picture has
emerged of which gas giants are infested and which
are not. Skimming fuel or otherwise entering the
atmosphere of an infested gas giant does not guarantee
contact and a previously ‘safe’ fuel skimming site
might conceal a colony… or perhaps a lone gas-shark
might have been carried there aboard an ill-fated starship.

163

