GAS-SHARK
ANIMAL
Gas-Shark
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS
BEHAVIOUR

HITS
25+
—
Dissolve (1D)
Flyer (idle)
Omnivore Grazer

SPEED
2m

Hand weapons and projectiles have no effect on them
other than to stir the cloud around a little. Likewise
lasers are largely ineffective and will damage whatever
they hit on the far side of the cloud (a laser fired at a
gas-shark does one point of damage per die – so a 5D
laser weapon will deal 5 points of damage).

RESEARCH STATIONS
Deneb has six Imperial research stations, an usually
high concentration for any sector. There is no standard
form for a research station; some are large complexes
on remote planetoids, others are chains of universities
located in major cities. The only thing these facilities
have in common is that they are far greater in size and
capabilities than the typical corporate laboratory or
university research department and that they have a
charter from the Imperium.

164

Electricity and similar forms of energy will harm a gasshark and Stun weapons deliver damage as normal. High
temperatures (such as plasma or flame weapons) will
also harm a gas-shark but may be inadvisable inside a
spacecraft.
A Traveller touched by a gas-shark will be slowly
dissolved at the rate of 1D damage per round. Armour is
dissolved at the rate of 1 point of Protection per round
and once reduced to zero, it is gravely breached and
useless. A gas-shark may well find ways into a sealed
suit before then. There is a 1 in 6 chance each round
of contact with the Traveller by way of a breached seal.
This is not sufficient to cause a suit to fail completely
but will result in a leak that could become serious.

Most research stations concentrate on a narrow remit,
and are leaders in their field. In some cases, the nature
of research undertaken at a facility is subject to strict
secrecy and the station is off-limits to unauthorised
visitors. Rumours of superweapons projects and
incredible revelations on the nature of the universe
abound but most of what goes on in these stations is
relatively mundane.

