Research stations are normally – but not always –
located in remote areas where access can be easily
controlled and typically have their own landing area not
available to casual visitors. Armed security is the norm,
and there are stiff penalties for anyone entering a facility
without permission. It is an open secret that much of
what goes on in these places is different to the publicconsumption version and occasionally accusations start
flying that a facility dealing with medical research might
actually be making biological weapons.
The staff of these facilities are tight-lipped, offering
only the standard explanation that cutting-edge research
costs a lot of money and there are those who would
like to steal data or beat the Imperial authorities to the
patent office. Thus a habit of secrecy is maintained even
where not necessary, making it harder for data thieves to
determine which installations are working on something
they want to steal.
There are many research laboratories throughout the
sector run by corporations, noble houses and world
governments but only six have the Imperial charter.

Research Station Alpha

Research Station Alpha is located on Arcanum, two
parsecs from Deneb in the Usani subsector. Arcanum
has been interdicted by the Imperium since 500 due to
a biological contaminant pervading the entire ecosphere.
The contamination takes the form of spores from a
yeast-like species which has a symbiotic relationship
with much of the native flora.
The source of contamination has resisted all attempts
to culture it artificially or transplant offworld, and the
unique combination of factors that allow it to thrive on
Arcanum has never been established. Humans exposed
to spores become dependent in the same manner as
local life and since the source species will not grow
elsewhere, leaving Arcanum is inevitably fatal within a
few days. However, the relationship has its benefits too,
as the symbiosis results in more or less doubling the
individual’s remaining life span.
Research Station Alpha is a sealed and carefully
controlled environment that studies this species and
its effects. The main laboratories are in orbit, with
a groundside installation run by a skeleton sample
collecting and analysis staff. Occasionally a staff
member is accidentally exposed, leading to a choice
whether to continue working in the ‘open’ part of the
groundside installation or retire among the world’s
population, a stable TL6 society that does not interact
with offworlders, except for a small number who
undertake necessary work or volunteer as test subjects.

Research Station Beta

Research Station Beta is located on Starn in the Inar
subsector. Since 685 it has hosted a research and
development facility, although this was not always
designated a full research station. The installation
began as a testing facility for the Imperial Navy and
later gained a tactical and analysis centre to become
Research Station Beta. Additional departments
dealing with large-ship construction techniques were
added, catering to the corporate shipbuilding and
operations marketplace.
Research Station Beta is located in the ‘mainworld’
asteroid belt and has grown to incorporate facilities on
several large planetoids and dwarf planets. Some areas
of the facility are strictly off-limits but others serve as a
showcase for emerging technologies or are accessible to
those on contract to sponsoring megacorproations. This
creates a complex security situation, with the research
station’s patrol vessels forever chasing off prospecting or
mining ships that have wandered too close – or claim to
have done so.

Research Station Gamma

Research Station Gamma is located on Maelstrom in
the the Usani subsector; the world was chosen for its
unwelcoming conditions and location off the main
trade routes, providing effective passive security to
the installation. Research Station Gamma specialises
in robotics, artificial intelligence and applications of
decision-making technology. This focus is common
knowledge, to the point where a revolution led by
artificially-intelligent domestic appliances and industrial
machines has become a common trope in local
entertainment shows, with a thinly disguised station
Gamma as the usual source.
Research Station Gamma is known to be undertaking
parallel research into a number of possible brain models
for artificial intelligence, including pure electronic
systems, biological systems and a variety of highly
exotic possibilities. A revelatory news story a few
years ago claimed that ‘clever pond weed’ had been
found on an unspecified world outside the sector and
transported to Research Station Gamma to create an
artificially intelligent biological network. This tale has
been dismissed by spokespersons from Research Station
Gamma as both preposterous and actually less weird
than some of the things they have tried.

Research Station Delta

Research Station Delta is located in the Aerfor system,
just outside the Imperial border in Million. The system
is officially listed as a client state of the Imperium,

165

