reflecting the fact that it is of sufficient strategic
importance to be worth fighting over. In addition to
the small security force of system defence boats and
patrol cutters, the Imperial Navy maintains a guardship
deployment in the system to remind all and sundry of
its status.
Research Station Delta was set up in 760 to study the
system’s unusual composition. Several bodies have
high concentrations of heavy elements, with superheavy
elements in small deposits. It is thought this is the
result of a supernova event in the very distant past but
why Aerfor and other bodies in its system formed this
way when nearby worlds did not remains unclear.
Not all of the system’s bodies have these characteristics.
Three of the four gas giants (and their moons) do not
but these are all thought to be captured bodies due to
their highly eccentric orbits. These orbits have perturbed
the system’s three planetoid belts, causing a complex
scatter of small bodies outside the belts proper and
resulting in the terrestrial planets taking a pounding over
the millennia. Vessels from the research station can be
found all over the system, sometimes spending months
searching for a planetoid that simply is not where
astrophysics predicts it must be.

Research Station Epsilon

Research Station Epsilon is located on Saarinen, at the
extreme spinward edge of the Sabine subsector. It is a
major centre for underwater planetological studies and,
unlike many research stations, has an extensive teaching
and training arm. Indeed, Epsilon trains underwater

explorers and scientists from very different areas of
expertise and is considered a centre of excellence for
field science.
According to the official history of the station it has
always been a physical-sciences centre but records
are said to exist of a time when Epsilon was a psionics
research installation. Rumours tell of a connection with
the semi-mythical Order of the White Star, an order of
knighthood open only to members with psionic abilities.
An order of that name did exist but details are sketchy
and there is no proof that psionic knights ever existed
in the Imperium, nor that Research Station Epsilon was
associated with them.

Research Station Zeta

Research Station Zeta is located at Pashus in Zeng.
Its field of interest is jumpspace phenomena and the
development of improved jump drives. As such, its work
is highly classified and security even more strict than at
most other installations. The research station maintains
a number of experimental starships and launches
expeditions into the Great Rift to investigate the effects
of jumping in very sparse regions of space.
Zeta also undertakes research into temporal physics in
general, and the relationship between time and jumpspace
in particular. It is thought by some scientists that the
jump-6 barrier can be broken once the relationship
between time and jumpspace phenomena is established.
Work in this field follows the controversial theories of Ashak
Moroyanga whose unexplained death in 881 brought an
end to a career marked by erratic brilliance.

Goukrrol

AERFOR SYSTEM

Diameter: 6400km
Atmospere (Corrosive)
Acid Lakes covering 80% of the

surface

Oerreg
Diameter: 900km
Trace Atmosphere
(Hydrogen)
Uazaelg
Diameter: 1300km
No Atmospere
Ice World
Udall
Diameter: 3600km
Very Thin Atmospere
(Tainted)

166

Uvuegh
Gas Giant
Largest in
System at
80,000km
Afak
Gas Giant
Agnau
Gas Giant
Kerzvoe
Diameter: 9000km
Very Thin Atmospere
Polar Icecaps

Enegh
Gas Giant

