MINOR RACES

The Deneb sector is home to several minor races.
Some are quite commonly encountered away from their
homeworlds; others are more obscure. Members of even
low-tech societies sometimes travel or are recruited
by agencies and services for their special skills. It
can be interesting for Travellers who have previously
encountered a member of an unusual species living as a
high-tech citizen at a starport to visit his homeworld and
find that its inhabitants are still in the stone age.
Individuals from these minor races are as varied as
anyone else, although social and cultural values tend
to diverge more from the mainstream of interstellar
society on backwater worlds. Communities away from
the starport region may have had little outside contact
in their entire history, possibly resulting in an entirely
unique culture.

Crenduthaar

The Crenduthaar are native to Ghatsoki (sector map
hex 0902), with communities on a number of worlds
including Pretoria (0406), Inar (1213), Antra (1808)
and Deneb (1925) as well as Regina (Spinward
Marches 1910). Their name is commonly rendered
as ‘Philosopher Kings of Thaar’, which is quite apt.
Whilst large, with an appearance most humans find
intimidating, the Crenduthaar are a peaceable and
highly intelligent race.
The Crenduthaar are one of the largest known sapient
species, with adults measuring some 2.5 metres in
length and massing up to 500kg. Exothermic, bisexual
and viviparous, they share many characteristics of Terran
mammals, although the young drink blood from special
glands in both males and females, and their bodies are
protected by scales rather than fur. Their forelegs are
modified with a ridge of scales forming a razor-edged
blade called a slasher, an adaptation evolved by ancient
Crenduthaar to cut the tendons of large beasts on the
run and cripple them; they remain formidable weapons.

Creating Crenduthaar Travellers

The Crenduthaar are nomadic descendants of
carnivore/pouncer stock. Massive, powerfully
built, with scale-armoured hides evolved as
protection from their star’s frequent flares, with
nightmarish, gape-mouthed heads filled with
double sets of razor-edged teeth, they can be
terrifying if encountered unexpectedly. Despite
their fearful appearance and fanged maws most,
Crenduthaar are vegetarians, although some
supplement their diet with small animals, which
they prefer to eat live.

Characteristics

Crenduthaar Travellers roll 3D when generating
their STR and END, but only 1D for their DEX.

Traits

Crenduthaar Travellers all possess the following
traits:
Armour (+3): Crenduthaar have thick scales which
grant Protection +3.
IR Vision: Crenduthaar have highly developed
vision in the infrared part of the spectrum and
can see clearly in darkness.
Natural Weapon (slasher, 2D): Crenduthaar have
large razor-edged slashers on their forearms which
they can use to cripple enemies. The slashers do
2D damage, and use the Melee (natural) skill.

Careers

The following careers from the Traveller Core
Rulebook are all suitable for the Crenduthaar:
Army, Citizen, Drifter, Marine, and Rogue.

Crenduthaar are hexapods, with their upper limbs used
for manipulation of objects and the lowest pair for
walking. The middle set can be used as either arms
or legs as the need arises, although they are not as
dextrous as the upper limbs. The most obvious feature
of the Crenduthaar is their mouth, which is filled with
a double row of highly prominent teeth and surrounded
by tendrils used for fine manipulation. The constant
movement of these tendrils is disturbing to many
humans and draws attention to their frightening mouths.

167

