The Crenduthaar evolved in an environment where the
sun never sets. For them, the dark side of their world
is a cold and forbidding place, a haunt of demons
and vengeful gods, where the insane and infirmed go
to die. All Crenduthaar have an intense dislike of the
dark, which borders on phobia. Even those slightly
afflicted are comfortable only when surrounded by light,
preferably centred in the red portion of the spectrum.
The Crenduthaar possibly suffered from success coming
too early in their development. Their powerful bodies
made hunting easy and there is no evidence of predators
on their homeworld that could threaten the primitive
bands. The only real threat was other Crenduthaar,
which was greatly reduced by social rules based on
ritualised etiquette.
Having essentially pacified themselves as well as their
homeworld, the Crenduthaar stagnated and never
developed a technological civilisation. They are quite
capable of understanding and using technology but
even those individuals who have lived offworld for years
enjoy returning to a simple stone-age lifestyle. The
Crenduthaar have essentially chosen not to progress.
Similarly, they are capable of great violence but prefer to
live peaceful lives.

This proved to be their undoing when Vargr arrived on
Ghatsoki. Crenduthaar oral histories relate how the
Vargr enslaved their people and most of the population
on Ghatsoki are still under Vargr rule, creating an
exception to the normal live-and-let-live attitude of the
Crenduthaar. They will kill Vargr without provocation,
if they can get away with it, and consider this more a
necessity than murder. Crenduthaar are unlikely to have
mercy for Vargr, no matter how helpless, any more than
a pest control officer would choose to spare the young or
infirm of an ant nest.
This tendency is not allowed to dominate Crenduthaar
thinking. They will refrain from murdering a passing
Vargr businessman in the starport concourse but hatred
will be apparent. Some nobles recruit Crenduthaar
as mercenaries, leading to the occasional incident
among otherwise loyal and reliable troops, and these
mercenaries are thought to have filtered back onto
Ghatsoki in the hope of liberating their people.

Gl’lu

The Gl’lu are native to Kubishush (0917), a forbidding
world with a high-pressure corrosive atmosphere.
Kubishush is wracked by earthquakes, making survival
a challenge. Despite this, the Gl’lu had developed
a technological civilisation by the time they were
contacted by the Imperium.
Gl’lu are septapods, with a slimy appearance most
humans find highly unpleasant. Four of their six limbs
can be used for movement or manipulation of objects
– or a thoroughly disgusting combination of both –
whilst their eyestalk is in constant motion. Gl’lu are
hermaphroditic and need an ammonia-rich environment
to survive. This makes direct contact with humans rare.
Despite their very alien appearance, the Gl’lu are
friendly and welcoming, with a culture familiar to
Imperial citizens in many ways. Their art and music are
agreeable to human perceptions, while their languages
are not difficult to learn and adaptable to the human
voice and ear. Technology is locally manufactured but
relies heavily on Imperial standards and produces
finished goods for the Imperial market through General
Products, Ling-Standard Products and Instellarms.
Kubishush has a multitude of subcultures, each with its
own language. Government is decentralised, with citystates governing provinces and smaller cities managing
regions within a province. This can lead to issues with
variations in local customs, language and laws, but
native Gl’lu are employed by both the Traveller’s Aid
Society and IISS as translators and guides for visitors.

