Creating Gl’lu Travellers

The Gl’lu are descended from rough-terrain
scavenger intimidators and look like nightmarish
insectoids. Their porous mottled skin, slimy
appendages and periscope-like eyestalk make
them look like a cross between a Terran octopus
and a slug. Indeed, upon first encountering
the race during the Grand Survey, scouts
mistook them for a far-flung colony of Githiasko
or genetically altered hivers. Their body is
asymmetric, with two sets of limbs; the front set
comprises four legs, which have adapted hands,
while the rear set consists of three stouter legs
for stability and power. The Gl’lu have a single
gender and for all intents and purposes are
hermaphroditic.

Characteristics

Gl’lu Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: END-1, DEX+1,
EDU-2

Traits

Gl’lu Travellers all possess the following traits:
Atmospheric Requirements: The Gl’lu depend on an
ammonia-rich environment and require a sealed
suit to survive in other atmospheres.
Fast Metabolism (+1): Gl’lu have a heightened
metabolism and very fast reactions. They gain
DM+1 to initiative rolls.
Heightened Senses: Gl’lu have better hearing and
sense of smell than humans. They receive DM+1
to any Recon and Survival checks they have to
make.
IR Vision: Gl’lu have highly developed vision in
the infrared part of the spectrum and can see
clearly in darkness. However, they can only see in
infrared.
Natural Weapon (fangs, 1D+2): Gl’lu have sharp
fangs that they can use to bite enemies. The
fangs do 1D+2 damage and use the Melee
(natural) skill.

Careers

All careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook are
suitable for the Gl’lu.

Gl’lu Starships

The Gl’lu have become a minor starfaring race and
thousands of Gl’lu traders can be found throughout the
region. Their best-selling commodities include highgrade materials and innovative environmental products,
while the synthetic slime coating that grants the wearer
protection from airborne corrosives is less than attractive
to other races.
Gl’lu starship design is a focus of obsession with
backup systems and redundancy, and all Gl’lu starships
have two bridges and two manoeuvre drives, typically
situated as far apart as possible. To a human, this
wasted space seems inefficient and in cases of multiple
backups even ludicrous, but to a Gl’lu humans live on
borrowed time onboard ships with no real redundancy of
critical systems.
The Gl’lu are accustomed to inhabiting small spaces
and their staterooms require much less space than those
intended for humans. They do not suffer any penalties
for working within a small bridge (see page 17 of High
Guard) and a Gl’lu stateroom can comfortably support
eight Gl’lu rather than two humans.

169

