Kirissukyoya

The Kirissukyoya are native to Giikusu (2316), although
they can be encountered almost anywhere in the sector
aboard their own ships or travelling on those of other
races. They evolved as hunters in the extensive forests
of their world, where their six-limbed bodies adapted to
movement among the undergrowth or along branches.
The Kirissukyoya developed a technological society
despite a series of highly destructive wars, then plunged
themselves into barbarism in a global conflict around
-2000. They might have become extinct but for the
intervention of Droyne from Zeen, who helped some
enclaves stabilise and eventually begin to rebuild the
technological base. This process was accelerated after
the Kirissukyoya became Imperial citizens and today
they have a spacefaring civilisation.
Much of Giikusu was reclaimed by forest after the fall
of civilisation and although cities are now being built in
these areas the Kirissukyoya are respectful of their ancient
woodlands. Possibly as a result, they are not welcoming
of visitors to their homeworld although are friendly and
sociable when encountered on their travels. Giikusu
has only the most basic starport available to outsiders,
although most major cities have a port for local traffic that
is of much better quality. Special licences are required to
use these ports and are not granted lightly.

Creating Kirissukyoya Travellers

The Kirissukyoya have trilateral symmetry, with
three arms and three legs. While Kirissukyoya have
a recognisable head, their brains are located within
their torsos.

Characteristics

Kirissukyoya Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: STR-1

Traits

Kirissukyoya Travellers all possess the
following traits:
Eidetic Sense (hearing): Kirissukyoya are able to
recall anything they hear with perfect clarity.
Natural Weapon (claws, 1D): Kirissukyoya have
retractable claws that they can use to eviscerate
enemies. The claws do 1D damage and use the
Melee (natural) skill.
Skill (mechanic 1): Kirissukyoya have an innate
understanding of mechanical processes and all
possess the skill Mechanic 1.

Careers

All careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook are
suitable for the Kirissukyoya.

Lurent

The Lurent are a minor race native to Borlund in the
Lamas subsector. They are large creatures, taking up
as much space as six humans, with a headless torso in
two segments. The thorax contains sense organs and
has two tentacle-like appendages used for manipulation.
The abdomen has a pair of legs used for locomotion and
a vestigial tail, and the entire body is covered in fur,
usually in shades of pale blue or green.
The Lurent seem to go through cycles where they are
compelled to wander far from their homes, eventually
returning to become sedentary. Cycles vary in length; an
individual might wander for months or decades and will
not always settle for an equal period before setting out
again. Lurent are tied to their place of origin somehow,
and can become distressed if unable to return. The
homeward urge is as powerful as the desire to leave and
has defied clear scientific explanation.

172

