Creating Lurent Travellers

Lurent are very large by human standards. They
have no vocal cords and communicate by a mix of
tentacle gesture and body language. Their language
is very subtle, with complex nuances of gesture

that humans simply cannot replicate. Lurent can
hear perfectly well but sometimes forget to listen
to words instead of following gestures. This
can lead to embarrassing misunderstandings or
occasional violence.

Characteristics

Lurent Travellers roll 2D+4 when generating their
STR and END.

Traits

Lurent Travellers all possess the following traits:
Natural Weapon (Tentacle Bash, 2D): Lurent are big
and powerful enough to be able to smash many
opponents without needing to pick up a weapon.
Their tentacles do 2D damage and use the Melee
(natural) skill.
Wanderlust: Lurent who are in a ‘wandering cycle’
cannot remain in one place for long. They will
constantly agitate to be moving on and become
increasingly irritable if they cannot. Those in
a ‘homeward’ cycle will do the same but are
compelled to make progress in the direction
of Borlund. A Lurent in a ‘sedentary’ cycle will
want to stay where he is and not be receptive to
suggestions of further travel.

Careers

The following careers from the Traveller Core
Rulebook are all suitable for the Lurent: Drifter,
Merchant, Noble, Rogue, Scout and Scholar.

Martian

The people widely known as Martians, or sometimes
Marzians, call themselves by a number of words all of
which translate as ‘us’, ‘we’ ‘the intelligent people of the
forests’ or other typical self-names. Since most of these
are difficult for outsiders to pronounce, the nickname is
widely used instead. It seems that the Martians do not
really have a concept of themselves as a species, instead
referring to their home group as ‘us’ and everyone else
of any species as ‘others’.
Physically, the Martians are lightly built humanoids with
long arms, reflecting their evolution in the warm, spindly

forests where most still make their homes. Traditional
villages consist of a handful of extended families,
creating a polity whose various names translate as ‘us’
or ‘my village’ with no attempt to identify which one it is
to an outsider. Martians are quite happy to travel beyond
their ‘us’ but everywhere that is not the home village
is foreign – they make no distinction between being in
a village a few kilometres from home or on a distant
moon a thousand light-years away. Anywhere that is not
home, is not home; there really is nothing more to it for
a Martian.

173

