Traditional society uses a curious mix of what are
essentially stone-age techniques and materials, mid-tech
tools and occasional imported equipment. A Martian will
happily use a power tool to knap a stone axe head so he
can work on a building project. Thus a traditional village
is TL0-1 but the people will make adept use of literally
any device or tool they can lay their hands on. Those
Martians who live in the cities make use of whatever
technology is available but would probably revert to their
traditional way of life if others did not provide
the technology.
Martians are supremely adaptable to new tools and
technologies but have not become dependent upon
them. As a result, they are sometimes recruited for
colony proving expeditions, coping well with setbacks
that might drive more conventional thinkers to despair.
Some even join high-technology services such as
merchant lines or the Imperial Navy. Their overall
philosophy is curious, in that they have no real
interest in ‘why’. So long as a Martian knows that

action A produces result B, he does not care how
or why this happens.
It is possible that everything a Martian ever learns is
stored as a separate experience, with few underlying
connections and no framework of understanding. Thus
a Martian knows that he will fall if he lets go of the
ladder but trying to explain gravity or the idea that
there is a science called physics to him will result in a
shrug and polite incomprehension. There are those who
have postulated this indicates a very different form of
sentience, which may be worth intense study, although
no major research project has been launched.

Creating Martian Travellers

Martians are humanoid and can carry out any task
a human can with roughly equal efficiency once
they have been shown how. Their language is very
difficult to pronounce and hard to follow for nonMartians, so they tend to use Anglic or other local
languages, which they have no apparent difficulty
in learning.

Characteristics

Martian Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: STR-1, END1, DEX+1. EDU is rolled on 1D and cannot be
increased beyond 7.

Traits

Martian Travellers all possess the following traits:
Adaptability: All Martians have an instinctive ability
to figure out what a tool or item can be used for –
which may not be its intended purpose – or to find,
make or wrangle something with which to complete
a given task. An INT check (difficulty depends on
the nature of the task and the resources at hand)
allows the Martian to come up with an off-the-wall
solution to a problem using whatever is to hand.
Telepathic Confusion: Attempts to use telepathy on a
Martian invariably fail, leaving the telepath baffled
and uneasy.

Careers

Most careers from the Traveller Core Rulebook
are suitable for Martians, although they gravitate
towards ‘frontiersman’ careers or hands-on jobs
like infantry soldiers. A Martian Scholar would be
a curious individual, with an alarming and very
strange approach to science.

174

