All of the standard vessels in Imperial service can be
encountered in Deneb, along with a few designs more
or less unique to the region. The vast majority of these
ships are commercial or utilitarian in nature, since it is
interstellar commerce that supports the battle fleets and
specialised vessels.

have the decreased fuel advantage, while warships are
often equipped with black globe generators.

Most ship operators in Deneb have access only to the
mainstream technologies available elsewhere but some
can obtain unique items from non-human races or
extremely advanced components produced in the TL16
factories of Vincennes.

WARSHIPS

VINCENNES

TECHNOLOGY

Vincennes has a technological edge over the rest of the
Third Imperium. The following High Guard components
are available to the shipyards of Vincennes.
Electronics: The electronics suites of Vincennes-built
ships are very advanced, creating significant advantages
for their ships. TL16 computer and sensor packages
are available in limited numbers on the open market
and in greater quantities to those who have the right
connections or are friendly with Vincennes.
Processing
Computer/40
Core/110
Sensors

TL Suite

Tech Level
16
16

Cost
MCr40
MCr150

DM Power Tons Cost

Superior 16 Densitometer, +3 8
Jammers,
Lidar, Neural
Activity
Sensor, Radar

8

MCr8.4

Advanced Countermeasures Suite: Improving upon the
already formidable military countermeasures suite, this
system can overwhelm any enemy communications
networks it encounters.
The advanced countermeasures suite grants DM+8 to all
attempts at jamming and electronic warfare, regardless
of the usual DM of the sensor suite it is attached to.
An advanced countermeasures suite consumes 20 tons
and costs MCr40. It requires 5 Power.
Other systems: Ships built at Vincennes typically use
advanced jump drives (see page 48 of High Guard) that

180

DEMILITARISED
AND CONVERTED
There are rules in place within the Imperium regarding
who is permitted to operate what sort of ship and
what weapon systems can be carried. Accountability
is the key factor; a world government is generally
considered more accountable for its actions than a small
corporation with an easily relocated centre of operations.
There is also the level of trust to be considered; a world
that has rebelled several times in the last two centuries
that suddenly wants to buy battleships, will not receive a
favourable response.
Power and influence can override many rules, however,
the client must be able to afford the ships. The Imperial
authorities do care if the vessels are affordable to the
end client, for two reasons. Firstly, there is always the
risk that a world government may buy ships it cannot
afford, then sell them to less than desirable operators,
and secondly the purchase of ships a client cannot
afford suggests they will be put to use in the near future.
This interests intelligence services, who constantly
watch for internal wars, rebellions and powerplays.
Some trusted operators can build or purchase warships
of any capability, a few technologies are restricted to
the Imperial armed forces and are never transferred
to other users. For others, options are more limited.
Some classes of ship (such as battleships and fleet
carriers) may be prohibited, leading to some interesting
legal fictions that allow builds; a few shipyards
construct ‘heavy commerce protection vessels’ that are
essentially cruisers for users not normally permitted to
have major warships.
Alternatively, ships may be demilitarised before sale.
The precise definition of demilitarisation is somewhat
flexible but generally means that spinal mounts are
removed along with some or all bay weapons. A general
reduction in fighting power is always considered
‘demilitarisation’ even if the vessel remains a powerful
fighting unit. The areas freed up by the removal of
weapon systems can be used for other purposes,
although this is never 100% efficient due to the shape
and location of spaces.

