Retrofitting

It is common for old warships to be converted into
system defence vessels. Whilst some components of the
jump drive may be degraded, enough remains reusable
in most ships to be a valuable source of spares for other
vessels. Components can also be sold to offset the
cost of the conversion. A ship that no longer has jump
capability does not need enormous fuel tanks and these
can be converted to other uses.
Conversely, weaponry and other components can be
retrofitted to ships that did not previously have them.
Minor systems, like laser turrets and a small additional
power plant to support them, can be fitted into odd
spaces, effectively reducing cargo capacity or replacing
a stateroom or two.

VENTURER-CLASS

FAST FREIGHTLINER

Designed and operated exclusively by Tukera Lines –
other than a handful of vessels passed to other owners
after suffering damage or incidents such as the notorious
ships-for-votes affair of 1096 – the Venturer-class is
fast in two ways. First, it has a two-jump-2 capability,
enabling it to cross a four-parsec gap between major ports
without the need to follow mains or standard shipping
routes. The Venturer also uses a lighter-aboard-ship
(LASH) configuration to permit rapid cargo transfers.

LASH ships carry little cargo internally but instead use
cargo lighters that are little more than powered cargo
pods. These can be dropped the moment the ship
emerges from jump, to make their way towards the
starport under their own power. A replacement set of
pre-loaded lighters can be waiting near the jump limit,
enabling the vessel to make its second two-parsec jump
before a conventional ship would have even reached
port. With vessels passing through on the strict schedule
for which Tukera is famous, this set-up can be very
efficient. It is particularly useful in systems where the
mainworld is an asteroid belt or where there are cargoes
for several points in the system; all can be delivered
at once rather than having to wait for transfer from the
main starport.
Of course, this system carries a significant overhead
in terms of prepositioned lighters but a small fleet of
Venturer-class vessels constantly runs between designated
ports, reusing the same lighters and pilots aboard a
succession of ships. Normally the standard 100-ton
cargo lighter and passenger boat are shipped but when
necessary the Venturer can carry a variety of other craft all
built on the same hull, with the same fittings.
Lighters are built to TL12 standards on a variety of
worlds and used as utility craft by numerous port
authorities, world governments and even other shipping
operators. The use of a lightly built hull and lower level of
technological sophistication keeps costs down and allows
these craft to be easily maintained at the ports they visit.

181

