Occasionally the Imperial Navy sells damaged vessels
or a client wishes to buy warships but cannot obtain
clearance for a full-capability cruiser or battleship.
Even without its spinal mount, a major warship is
still a prestigious flagship for a noble or a corporation
and can provide useful military capability when
operating in a troubled region.
This demilitarised Gionetti has lost its spinal
armament, missile capability and tractor beams.
Laser armament has also been reduced, with
standard weapons substituted for the advanced
beam lasers of the original design. It is otherwise a
fully capable warship.

12,000
HULL POINTS

CREW
CAPTAIN, PILOTS X 6, ASTROGATOR,
ENGINEERS X 60, MAINTENANCE X 30,
GUNNERS X 72, ADMINISTRATORS X 15,
MEDICS X 2, STEWARDS X 30

RUNNING COSTS
MAINTENANCE COST

MCr1.371915 per month

The conversion, in this case, is for the vessel to be
the private yacht of a powerful noble. The space
originally occupied by the spinal meson gun has
been converted into a flight operations centre with
hangars for up to 1,000 tons of craft. The former
meson tube is now open to space for most of its
length, acting as a launch/recovery deck for shuttles
and rapid recovery of up to 100 tons of craft at once
is possible; larger vessels can be accommodated but
must make a careful approach and flight through the
short remaining section of the tunnel.
There is an element of ego about this arrangement.
The ship retains its original five cutters as
subordinate craft but the ability to launch several
fighters at once, then the owner’s private shuttle,
followed by another escort flight has its uses. Rapid
recovery might be useful in the event of a hurried
departure from negotiations gone awry but more
commonly it is used to recover a group of escorting
fighters at once just for show.
Other features were fitted in the space vacated by the
missile magazines. These include an additional and
wholly unnecessary command bridge dedicated purely
to controlling flight operations of the owner’s shuttle
and any escorts, and tracking threats. The owner’s
grand suite comprises the equivalent of four luxury
staterooms and a large reception/relaxation area, plus
an armoured vault containing another luxury stateroom,
private medical facility and a common area.

PURCHASE COST
MCr16462.985 *

Power Requirements
15000

6000

200

MANOEUVRE
DRIVE

BASIC SHIP
SYSTEMS

FUEL
PROCESSOR

15000

16

537

JUMP DRIVE

SENSORS

WEAPONS

* Note that this cost assumes a basic refit. Hubris
can (and often does) greatly increase the cost as
luxury items such as ballrooms, theatres and spas
are added.

Guest accommodation is on the other side of the
ship, with several luxury staterooms and a dedicated
common area serving the occupants. Former missile
storage space now holds a small biosphere created
as an ornamental garden, a rather grand library, a
firing range and a stable. There is also a ballroom
the size of a small merchant ship.
The interior of the ship has been extensively
redecorated, with the former drab scheme replaced
with real wood panelling and soft carpets. Even
the original crew cabins and working areas have
been refurbished to improve comfort and – more
importantly to the owner – impress those lucky
enough to be invited aboard.

207

