Pretoria is at times seen as the politico-economic
equivalent of a salient in a defensive line, with (often
unrelated) threats coming in from all directions. Not all
are of a military nature; a trade dispute just over the
border can have serious implications for local industries
and ship operators, which in turn can cause dissent on
other worlds. There are times when the local nobility
long for something as straightforward as a military
confrontation. As they say in Pretorian political
circles, ‘Oh, for a clear target and nobody behind me
with a noose’.
The world of Pretoria lies in the centre of the subsector,
well positioned for local governance but isolated from
jump-1 trade by surrounding minor rifts. To overcome
this problem, jump bridges were created to link Pretoria
to Miwald and Caladib. These bridges are permanent
deep-space stations where jump-1 ships can refuel
and recalibrate their drives. It is thus possible to reach
almost any world in the subsector aboard any jumpcapable vessel. The stations are expensive to maintain
but benefits to local trade are enormous.
The subsector was originally settled on a small scale
as a result of the gradual outward creep typical of
Imperial borders. In the 300s the pace increased
rapidly as heavy investment was made in a cluster of
worlds with impressive mineral wealth. As this local
industrial base grew, trade expanded rapidly to follow.
This was not without difficulties; it was not until
the 350s that the short-range trade lanes within the
subsector were declared safe from piracy. Long-range
links back into the Imperium were likewise threatened
by raiders for many years, a problem that has never been
completely eradicated.

JODE

Jode has a high surface gravity and exotic atmosphere,
making it a poor prospect for habitation but at the same
time offering possibilities for the chemical industry. It
was colonised using sealed-environment techniques,
although these were primarily workplaces rather than
homes. The large orbital port has grown into a city and
is home to most of the world’s population. Indeed, the
majority of citizens of Jode have never set foot on the
planet and would really prefer not to.
Jode has little industry of its own, just some fabrication
and light engineering located at the orbital port.
Its economy is entirely based on the extraction and
processing of chemicals from its exotic atmosphere or
dissolved in its oceans. Although the atmosphere is not

218

Rachele Society
The Rachele Society is a secretive Vilani
supremacist group founded on Pretoria by Zid
Rachele in 992. Violent from the outset, the
society quickly escalated into using attacks
intended to cause mass casualties. Having
demonstrated a willingness to use weapons of mass
destruction, the Rachele Society then attempted to
hold a number of worlds to ransom with the threat
of such an attack
This culminated in the attempted takeover of
the Pretorian government in 1010 but nuclear
blackmail backfired when 26,000 people
(including 1,900 Rachelean commandos) were
killed in a nuclear explosion after the society seized
Imperial scout facilities on Saki. The Imperium
tries to stay out of local politics but intervention
was forced in order to protect Imperial assets and
prevent further use of nuclear weaponry.
The Imperium plans to relax martial law on Pretoria
over the next 10 years, although military analysts
insist the Rachele Society still exists. Zid Rachele
himself disappeared in 1015 after escaping the
prison world Exile in the Usani subsector.

