corrosive, it contains a number of compounds – notably
chlorine-based – that will damage a human respiratory
system if they get into a vehicle or settlement’s internal
atmosphere. Those working outside must undergo
painstaking decontamination every time they pass into
an inhabited area, so where possible this work is done
using drones or robots.
Jode apparently suffered an enormous geological event
around a million years ago, resulting in the sinking of
one of its continents. This also caused the extinction of
a native sentient species now referred to as Serpents.
The Serpents did not progress past the stage of using
primitive stone tools and few artefacts have been found.
There may be considerably more waiting to be located
but finding them means working underwater on a world
where a change in weather can result in toxic snow or
dangerous chemical concentrations in the water.

MARZ

Marz is a warm world with a dense atmosphere, making
much of the surface uncomfortable for humans and
Vargr. These areas are mainly populated by the native
people, often referred to as Martians. Martians make up
about 30% of the world population, with the remainder
– around 40% human and 30% Vargr – concentrated in
environment-controlled cities located in temperate and
polar regions.
Imperial humans first settled Marz around 400, after the
Vargr Campaigns. Various Vargr groups had already been
on Marz for some time, although there is no scholarly
consensus on when they first settled. Many Vargr gladly
submitted to Imperial government, while some fled or
fought. To this day, Marz maintains a patrol squadron to
manage the ‘corsair problem’ in neighbouring systems.
The government of Marz is a ponderous, multi-layered
bureaucracy. The needs of the citizens are almost
always met… eventually. Justice is meted out slowly,
but in relative fairness, and inefficiencies in world
management are offset by the wealth generated by
trade. Marz acts as a trade nexus between the Imperium
and Vargr Extents, as well as between Pretoria and the
Aramis Trace.
Trans-border trade is usually carried out by specialist
shipping companies, who use well-armed merchant
ships or escorted convoys. Many small-ship operators
also hop back and forth across the border, creating
a major job for the system’s customs enforcement
personnel. Trade within the Imperium mostly moves
aboard big multi-kiloton freighters by way of Pretoria
and smaller vessels within the local cluster.

PRETORIA

Pretoria was settled by the Imperium around 300,
although there may have been enclaves already onplanet from earlier, unofficial colonisation efforts.
Other than having a thin atmosphere, Pretoria was
more or less ideal for colonisation and rapidly became
a major population and economic centre. Its position
on the jump-2 link between the subsector’s two
clusters ensured a great deal of through-traffic at the
starport, with corresponding economic benefits. As
a centre for communications it was inevitable that
Pretoria would develop into a major political player and
its selection as the subsector capital was a foregone
conclusion.
Today, Pretoria exerts considerable influence over a
number of worlds in the Spinward Marches. Dubbed
the Aramis Trace, these worlds are connected to
Pretoria by way of the x-boat route through Marz
(0201). Although not officially part of the Duchy of
Pretoria, the governments of these worlds often find it
convenient to seek mediation and advice from the duke
and will sometimes informally request naval assistance.
Technically, this is a breach of many protocols and
could have serious repercussions but the Dukes of
Pretoria have traditionally looked out for the worlds of
the Aramis Trace – albeit out of self-interest – and the
niceties of protocol are sidelined in favour of getting
the job done.
Pretoria has a large and very busy starport but its
shipyards are currently closed down. The facilities were
ordered to cease production after a series of terrorist
attacks and whilst the problem appears to have been
resolved, permission has not been granted to resume
production. It is widely thought that political rivals
may have had a hand in this as the longer the yards are
closed the more difficult and expensive it may be to
restart production. Indeed, it may be that Pretoria has
built its last starship.
Most, if not all, of the terrorism directed at Pretoria
was the work of the Rachele Society. The security
services have made many arrests, and attacks have
dwindled to virtually nothing, but it is still thought that
the Rachele Society may have active cells on Pretoria.
The starport is subject to heavy security as it has been
a target in the past but there is a limit to how secure
the facility can be made without crippling trade. Tukera
Lines has its own facility – more or less equivalent to
a Class A starport but lacking shipbuilding capabilities
– in the system and other megacorporations have their
own smaller ports that are off-limits to most traffic.

219

