REDI

Redi lies at the outer edge of the system’s habitable
zone, resulting in a low average temperature. This did
not make it unsuitable for colonisation but Redi never
received large-scale population migration or investment,
and was left behind during the early development of the
subsector. Today, it is regarded as one of the ‘missedthe-boat’ worlds that is unlikely ever to be anything but
a backwater.
Redi’s significance, if that is the right term, is as a
probable Ancients site. There is at least one major
ruin, with smaller locations suspected to exist in
other areas. The Imperial authorities do not normally
release information on possible Ancients sites, so it
is entirely likely that several artefact caches or ruins
have been located and explored by officially sanctioned
researchers. The known ruin is disappointing; it consists
only of a few structures without machinery or artefacts.
Occasionally, a band of hopeful amateurs finds a way
into one of the remaining sealed structures but always
return empty-handed.
It is not known what purpose the Ancients had on Redi,
if indeed the structures are theirs. Some scientists have
suggested that the design of the structures is different
and the age is wrong for them to be the work of the
Ancients, however Ancients sites do vary considerably
and there is no evidence that these structures were built
by anyone else.

URNAS

Urnas is an uninviting desert world but its location as
a jump-1 link in the local cluster, and the presence

220

of good mineral deposits, attracted early investment.
Urnas had the potential to grow into a major industrial
centre but its society fragmented soon after the initial
colonisation and has remained divided ever since.
Urnas is balkanised, with two major states and
numerous smaller ones. By far the majority of the
population belong to either Sulan, a theocracy of over
1.1 billion inhabitants or Kasame Upu Uluriri. The latter
is a technocracy with around 0.7 billion citizens and is
slightly ahead in terms of both technological capability
and strategy for implementing those technologies.
These two powerful states have been at odds for
centuries. Direct conflict is rare, although both seem
quite willing to engage in threats of all-out destruction
on a routine basis. Typically, the conflict takes the form
of minor incidents followed by a great deal of posturing,
troop movements and dire warnings. When open warfare
has broken out it has been vicious, resulting in the
destruction of the starport and major damage to several
population centres. Proxy wars among the smaller states
are also frequent. As a result, Urnas is Amber Zoned
and much of its industrial output goes to weaponry
rather than goods for export.
The system’s planetoid belt and some of its other
planets are inhabited, mainly by mining colonies
operated by Sternmetal Horizons and Ling-Standard
Products. The two major nations of Urnas also maintain
outposts elsewhere in the system. These are generally
left alone by tacit agreement – neither power wants to
fight a war in space which would inevitably result in the
loss of outsystem facilities no matter who won.

