Not coincidentally, Lamas is a hotbed of rebellion,
intrigue and piracy. Local leaders do their best to keep
the lid on the pot but resources are limited and most
world governments lack the capability or authority to
do much beyond their own borders. Thus it falls to
the Imperial Navy to maintain order, with the Duke of
Pretoria providing political guidance. However, even here
the wind changes from time-to-time, and the navy can
suddenly find itself under pressure from the Duke of
Antra or Inar to do something entirely different.
Caught in the middle of this political mess is the
213th Imperial Fleet. It says much about the situation
in Lamas that although each subsector fleet has a
‘unique’ numbered designation, the 213th is actually
one of three fleets to bear that number. The others are
in neighbouring Spinward Marches and Corridor, which
adds to the confusion. Personnel, requisitions and even
entire squadrons of ships are sometimes sent to the
wrong 213th Fleet and it is very rare that such windfalls
are ever given back.
This has benefited the Lamas subsector fleet as much
as hindered it, although it does mean that the fleet
deploys a rather strange mix of vessels. The fleet has
become something of a political football in recent years,
with one subsector duke pressing for more cross-border
patrols only for another to demand the 213th pull back
and secure trade routes running across the rimward end
of the subsector. As a result, the subsector fleet has
acquired an unfair reputation for incompetence and
weak leadership.

ANSIRK

Ansirk is an all-but-uninhabited rockball, with a tiny
population in a single outpost maintained for territorialclaim reasons. Ansirk is a fragment of a much larger
planet, which appears to have fragmented for unknown
reasons. It follows an eccentric orbit well inside the
primary’s habitable zone, resulting in harsh surface
conditions. The worldlet has no atmosphere or surface
water although some ice pockets have been located,
claimed as critical assets by the starport authority for
life support and fuel use.
Normally a rockball of this sort would not be worth
colonising but a small community does live and work
there. So long as Ansirk has a ‘native’ population, it
cannot be claimed by any of the region’s ambitious

world governments or noble houses. Without indigenous
people, the world would be up for grabs, which would
in turn create legal issues regarding ownership of the
starport. The existence of this population is something
of a legal fiction, as few of its people were actually born
on Ansirk. However, everyone has citizenship of the
world even if they are essentially professional residents
who will eventually move on to somewhere more welcoming.
Ansirk is rugged and nonregular like a planetoid but
the size of a small planet and in a few million years
Ansirk’s own gravitational forces will conform it into
a rough sphere. It was chosen as the location for the
starport partly due to its rich and varied veins of useful
metals and radioactives, exposed on the world’s new
surface and granting easy access. However, exploitation
has not yet begun despite a series of plans put forward
by various corporations and governments. Each one
has stalled at the negotiation stage, usually over
disagreements about profit-sharing and taxation.
A larger fragment of the original world (size 5) lies on
the other edge of the habitable zone; it has an insidious
atmosphere, is not habitable and interdicted by the
IISS. The occasional scientific expedition has been
given permission to visit and study the fragment but no
conclusions have been published about what happened
to the original world.
Ansirk Starport is far more important than the world it
orbits, as it serves x-boat routes as well as local trade
routes. It is very rare for vessels to visit the world’s
small and basic landing area, except to resupply the
outpost. Most ships dock at the orbital facility, moving
on without going planetside. Although highly automated,
the port has a population of several thousand workers,
not considered citizens of Ansirk itself but encouraged
to apply for citizenship and automatically accepted if
they do. The majority are simply employees or business
owners who work at Ansirk Starport but call some other
world home.
The starport could, in theory, build starships but
typically it does not. Instead, its modest yards turn out
small craft and fighters for a variety of clients, with a
training staff maintained to certify pilots and crew.
Most designs are standard but recently Ansirk Starport
has begun recruiting test pilots for an experimental
fighter program.

223

