old earthquake. On the other side of the rift is a high
plateau, where plains were gradually lifted up 1,000
kilometres over the last 200 million years. Here, the
ground cover is spongy rather than springy.

affected. The Lurent do not do things by halves when it
comes to suppressing piracy.

Plant life on cliffs and ridges evolved to compete
for sunlight by clinging to near-vertical surfaces and
growing outward in wide, flat shelves. Complicated
root structures use enzyme catalysts to bore slowly
into the rock to anchor the plants, leaching chemicals
directly from metabolised stone. New plants may require
centuries to root. Once established, plants grow outward
at an astonishing rate.

Gzigorlloe is a moon of the gas giant Zukou. Its
trace atmosphere provides little or no protection
from meteorites and cannot prevent the temperature
plunging at night. During the day, chemicals can be
seen subliming off the surface of Gzigorlloe’s ice lakes,
although the temperature does not stay warm enough to
have liquid water for long.

The Lurent of Borlund evolved in a milieu of competition
for high ground along the base of cliff-plant ledges.
Low gravity combined with the efficient use of vertical
space allowed the population to grow with few major
interruptions by war or disease, reaching billions before
space travel was developed. The colonisation of their
home system saw the population boom into the tens of
billions as gigantic planetoids were gathered and moved
into the habitable zone to drive industry, agriculture
and engineering. Concentrated raiding by Vargr corsairs
spurred development of defensive technology and in
time Vargr learned to avoid the Borlund system.
Since the coming of the Third Imperium, the Lurent
have periodically launched expeditions to nearby worlds
thought to harbour corsairs. Mercenary forces are always
used, although they may be transported aboard Lurent
starships. Expeditions are launched no more often than
one every few years but when one is being prepared
the mercenary marketplace across the sector can be

GZIGORLLOE

Gzigorlloe was colonised by a number of Vargr corsair
bands, each of which created its own stronghold far
from the others. Some settlements grew large enough
to develop some industry, usually supported by local
mining, but for the most part were bases rather than
homelands. Gzigorlloe gained a reputation as a ‘corsair
moon’ for a time, until the Imperial Navy launched a
series of major assaults in the late 1090s. One-by-one,
the corsair bases were smashed, some so badly that they
were never repopulated.
Today, the remaining settlements are run by Vargr gangs,
some of which are involved in smuggling or piracy but
on a much smaller scale than before. Each settlement
has its own small spaceport of sorts and there are no
overland links between communities; space vessels or
grav vehicles are used for what little contact they have
with one another. The central starport is regularly fought
over or subject to surprise landgrab attempts, making it
an unhealthy place to visit.

225

