a few outward-looking corporations and small shipping
lines that work hard to create trade links coreward
to the border. The difficulties they face suggest that
conventional wisdom is based upon at least a halfdecent appraisal of the situation.
Antra is protected by the 151st fleet, which has a
higher than usual allocation of high-jump couriers
and fast-response vessels to help secure distant parts
of the subsector. This is a mixed blessing; the sector
commander routinely borrows these assets to undertake
missions elsewhere and it is not uncommon for
returning ships to be shortstopped by other commanders
to deal with problems in their locality. As a result, the
151st Fleet is chronically understrength and has lost
its best assets but on paper it looks very capable. This
makes getting replacements or even just securing the
return of borrowed vessels a difficult business.

ANTRA

Antra is a subsector capital and important link on the
x-boat network. It is renowned for its Worldroof, an
experimental construction of hexagonal cells supported
by towers, intended to create a sheltered and partially
controlled environment, increasing air pressure to more
comfortable levels and eliminating the worst effects of
weather. The cells act as solar collectors and, along
with wind-powered generators, provide much of the
world’s electricity.
The Worldroof is visually spectacular but scientifically
even more impressive. A large museum at the downport
explains the science and technology behind the
construction and maintenance of the Worldroof, taking
pains to ensure visitors understand just how staggeringly
expensive and difficult it was to create.
Antra has another well-known tourist attraction, the socalled Black Lines; lines, curves and shapes etched on
the bedrock of some areas. They appear to be artificial
and are visible from low orbit but although there are
many hypotheses about their origins and meaning,
little is truly known about them. Nevertheless, people
come from far and wide to visit the Black Lines. Some
are taken in by charlatans pretending to be scientists
with an explanation of the phenomenon and whilst the
government officially disapproves of sell-out lectures
by fake scientists, it does little to curb the practice as
it generates revenue; speculation (usually presented as
fact, or as ‘shocking revelations the mainstream science
community doesn’t want you to know’) about the Black

228

Lines is one of the few unregulated areas of life on
Antra. After all, whenever a lunatic theory takes hold of
the popular imagination, a few million tourist Credits
come into Antra’s coffers.
As a result of this free-for-all, a number of myths exist
about Antra. The reality is fairly mundane; Antra is an
important and rich world, the seat of the subsector
duke, with a booming tourist sector. Its capital is a
hotbed of political intrigue, with ambassadors from
other duchies and corporate officials entrenched in
heavily-guarded embassies. Anyone of note arriving at
the capital can expect to be cordially invited to parties,
receptions or just a friendly meeting with one or more
of these officials and then the manoeuvring starts.
Everyone wants to manipulate the other players to their
advantage; anyone of note might be a useful pawn in
the game of sector politics. The situation is similar at
other ducal seats in the sector but Antra is particularly
rife with political gamesmanship. Reliable information
is hard to obtain and no-one’s motives are clear.

REMSEN

Remsen’s atmosphere is uncomfortably dense and
combined with its large areas of surface water this
creates near-permanent thick cloud cover. ‘To rain like
on Remsen’ is a figure of speech on several local worlds,
and not without good reason. There is no such thing as
drizzle or mist on this world; rain can best be described
as big lumps of water falling from the sky, whilst fog
renders even walking hazardous.
The world is heavily balkanised, as a result of the
population dwelling in widely dispersed city-states.
Conflict between communities is uncommon, not least
due to their separation, but rivalries exist in areas
as diverse as sport, trade and art. Offworlders are
sometimes puzzled at just how excited citizens of a citystate can get because an artist from their community
has been awarded a prize or simply produced something
better than his arch-rival from another city.
These rivalries extend to trade in a way not entirely
connected with making money. Revenue is always
welcome but a city-state that makes more from trade or
tourism than another will value the money more as an
indicator of victory over a rival. The people of Remsen
are friendly to offworlders but in their eagerness to get
one over other communities, may forget their manners or
become offended at outsiders who will not comply with
their plans.

