The 61st Fleet, assigned to Million, is optimised for
dealing with small-scale incursions by Vargr corsairs;
if ‘optimised’ is the right word. The fleet is used as a
dumping-ground for obsolescent vessels and ‘plodder’
officers and spends most of its time on routine patrols in
the systems around Taproban. Vessels are typically old,
small and in need of maintenance, with spares of all
kinds in short supply.
Cross-border operations are carried out by far better
vessels assigned to Sector Fleet command and deployed
in the subsector when needed. These ships show the flag
and dash back and forth across the border to deal with
crises, leaving the subsector fleet to enforce customs
regulations and mount sensor watches over backwater
worlds. The 61st Fleet shows up poorly in joint exercises
and their Sector Fleet colleagues are not kind about it.
Real resentment is growing among the personnel of this
force, although as yet it manifests only as poor morale
and even poorer performance.

495-524

495-524 is an unclaimed and virtually uninhabited
world, although it has the potential to support largescale settlement. Its starport is hardly worthy of the
name, being little more than a landing field located next
to the world’s only settlement. It is not clear exactly why
this facility was set-up, but there is a known Ancients
site a few kilometres away. It may be that 495-524 was
settled by hopeful artefact-hunters but today the port
is a small frontier town with virtually no industry. About
half the inhabitants have ‘always been there’, as they
put it, and call the town home. The rest are transients or
have nowhere better to go.
The Ancients site is widely known but apparently picked
clean many years ago. It consists of a set of tunnels
running into a cliff face, with chambers deep inside the
rock. They were emptied of anything movable long ago
and whilst the occasional rumour surfaces of a hidden
entrance to ‘the rest of the ruin’ these tales inevitably
turn out to be false. The main importance of the ruin is
that it brings bright-eyed greenhorns into the port from
time-to-time, who can be fleeced by local guides offering
lost secrets and great riches.
The world has a reasonable amount of mineral wealth
and prospectors are not uncommon. The surface is
pockmarked with the collapsed remains of strip-mines
where offworld companies have moved in for a year
or two, ripped everything out of an easily accessed
vein of ore, then simply packed up and left. There are
also rumoured to be small settlements hidden away
in obscure corners of the globe, home to corsairs,
smugglers and outlaws.

FEL

Fel lies just outside the Imperial border, within the
territory claimed by the United Followers of Augurgh. It
is unusually steadfast in its support of the UFA which,
combined with its importance as a source of industrial
goods, makes it an extremely significant asset to the
alliance. Fel maintains a small but effective system
defence flotilla, backed up by a standing deployment of
the UFA Navy. The infighting among captains and senior
commanders within the fleet elements deployed to Fel
rarely spills over into local politics but all the same Fel’s
government has openly stated that it would prefer the
fleet to go and bicker somewhere else.
This is unlikely to happen, since the UFA feels the need to
demonstrate its naval capabilities and Fel is a good place
to be seen. Its high-standard port sees considerable trade
from Imperial worlds as well as local systems, and several
Imperial corporations are active on Fel or at its port. The
UFA leadership considers that reminding the Imperium
and surrounding worlds that they have a navy – of sorts –
is necessary and will sometimes concentrate almost the
entire available force off Fel just to make a point.
Fel itself is not a welcoming world. It has an
unbreathable exotic atmosphere and its ecosystem is
saturated with heavy metals and other toxic minerals.
This makes food production a problem – Fel relies
heavily on imports – but it does support an extensive
mining and mineral-extraction sector. This in turn feeds
the world’s industry, which produces goods for export
across the subsector and the territory of the UFA.
Fel also builds starships, mostly commercial ships or
freighters, but Fel is a primary shipyard for the UFA
and produces a range of vessels ranging from fighters
through escorts to the occasional cruiser. Some vessels
go to less than reputable operators and whilst Fel does
not openly build corsairs for pirate bands some of
its ‘well-armed merchant ship’ designs are distinctly
paramilitary. Fel has been known to issue Letters of
Marque to the operators of these vessels although it
normally distances itself from activities of corsair bands
in order to maintain the façade of a civilised power. This
is important if the world wishes to avoid a raid in force
by the Imperial Navy.
Fel’s cities are mainly underground and tend to
be focussed on an industrial or mining centre with
supporting infrastructure. Some structures protrude
above ground level and are either pressurised or
protected by a dome, however the majority are fully
underground. Living quarters would be considered
claustrophobic by most humans but public spaces like
parks are large and well-kept.

231

