On-planet food production is industrial and mostly based
on yeast products. These are palatable enough but not
satisfying for the soul and many of the world’s Vargr
population spend a significant part of their income on
imported food. One useful, if perhaps odd, distraction
from the local food is hunting. Indoor game preserves
do exist, although membership and licenses are very
expensive. For most Vargr so inclined, the cheaper
option of outdoor hunting offers at least the feeling of
having chased real food. The local wildlife is so full
of toxic chemicals that it is inedible but tucking into
a plate of yeast-extract and noodles is somehow more
satisfying after a successful hunt.
The world government is surprisingly stable, considering
it is made up of a great many Vargr clans. As might be
expected, personalities play a big part in governance
and affairs of the planetary senate can be violent. Even
when there is no outright conflict there is always a lot
of noise and posturing in the senate, with threats and
denunciations commonplace. Consensus is usually
achieved and the end result is a stable society but the
methods by which this is achieved can be vigorous.

GABRAEL

Located close to Taproban in the central cluster of
Million, Gabrael is to a great extent a typical Imperial
world. About 1.2 million of its four million citizens are
Vargr but all are Imperial citizens first and foremost. The
world is rather dry and has a tainted atmosphere, which
prevented it from ever being an attractive destination
for settlement. In fact, the orbital starport is the world’s
main source of revenue and far more important than the
planet itself.
The highport is owned and operated by Ling-Standard
Products (LSP), which runs the facility as a wholly
owned subsidiary and rents space to other businesses.
The port has a repair-and-maintenance contract with
the subsector fleet, although this is mostly restricted
to minor repairs on small escort vessels. The shipyards
mainly produce small merchant and commercial vessels
of a sort used by many clients throughout the subsector.
These are often armed for self-defence, given the world’s
location close to the border and many clients ask for
their ships to be upgunned as tensions rise.
The highport generates a great deal of revenue from trade
and shipbuilding but only a small proportion reaches
the planetary government. Some of this is taxation and
although LSP pays only a very small percentage to its
hosting government, this still forms most of the income of
a world with a population of four million. Some purchases
are also made, notably foodstuffs from the belt of
industrial farms around the downport.

236

Visitors could be forgiven for thinking that Gabrael has
pretensions of being an agricultural world but only a small
area is intensively farmed. This provides more than enough
food for the population and sale to the highport operators.
Most craft based at the downport are agricultural haulage
shuttles, with few passenger and cargo vessels.
The downport has minimal facilities, serving mainly as a
transfer port for agricultural goods. The world’s startown
is located around 20km away, outside the immediate
farming belt. It is reached by a fast and efficient rail
service and caters to offworld visitors as well as acting
as the centre of government. Around 500,000 people
dwell in the startown or immediately around it, with
the remainder of the population living in small cities
wherever there are resources and sufficient water.

IKHABA

Located right on the Imperial border with the United
Followers of Augurgh, Ikhaba is a world of little
importance except as a buffer against UFA influence.
The 900,000 or so inhabitants have a mature TL8
society that cannot compete economically with nearby
high-tech industrial worlds. Considerable amounts of
food are shipped across the border to Fel in return
for industrial goods, with Ikhaba very much the junior
partner in the relationship.
This situation has been used as a rallying cry by various
factions. Investment (by whatever faction is being
denounced for not doing it) in worlds like Ikhaba would
prevent Imperial systems becoming poor relations to
powerful foreigners or so say those who do not have to
fund it. At present, there are no practical reasons for
sinking vast sums into backwater worlds in order to bring
them up to high-tech standards and Imperial pride does
not translate into freighters full of cash. Thus Ikhaba
and worlds like it continue to get by without any real
chance of development.
Ikhaba has a corporate government; in this case
literally. The World Corporation of Ikhaba was founded
specifically to oversee colonisation of the planet and
has governed it ever since. Whilst not a charismatic or
inspiring organisation, the worldcorp does an effective
job of enforcing liberal laws and keeping the street
lights on and the population are content due, perversely
perhaps, to agitation by proponents of the UFA.
Whilst the UFA has won over a small segment of the
population, the majority have gone the other way. There
is a greater sense of national identity on Ikhaba now
than has existed in the past.

