Some of the more radical factions within the UFA have
tried to sway opinion on Ikhaba by direct means but
violence, intimidation and attacks on shipping have
resulted in a further hardening of opinion against the
alliance. Ikhaba’s liberal weapon ownership laws have
permitted the formation of highly unofficial militias,
which occasionally clash with UFA-sponsored groups.
The subsector fleet has also stepped up patrols in the
system to deter attacks on shipping.

TALON

Talon is located a couple of parsecs from the Imperial
border and forms part of the United Followers of
Augurgh. Like the alliance itself, Talon is anything
but united. Its states merge and split, with factions
sometimes forming a quasi-state that somehow
manages to exist alongside the local government for a
time. The population consists of around 200 million
Vargr and 1.8 billion Souggvuez, the native people of
Talon. The two species are intermixed and have formed
a united culture.
The first Vargr came to Talon around -300, fleeing
disaster in their homelands. Theirs was a largescale migration but not an invasion as such. Instead,

the spacefaring Vargr found kindred spirits in the
Souggvuez, who at the time had an atomic-era culture.
The Vargr were more energetic – some might say
pushy – than the indigenous population and made
themselves a niche in the upper echelons of society.
These distinctions gradually eroded over time and today
there really is little distinction between a Vargr and a
Souggvuez citizen of Talon.
Talon has a sufficiently large economy that it exerts
influence on both sides of the border and routinely hosts
Imperial trade ships up from Taproban and even Atsah.
Its ambassadors are major players in the politics of the
local worlds, although their efforts to show the Imperials
just how important they are tend to come off as noisy
posturing for its own sake.
One characteristic of Talon’s complex government
system is that everything is done by committee,
including interstellar affairs. When disagreements reach
an impasse, the usual result is some variation on the
theme of conflict. Skirmishing and corsair raids are more
common than all-out war but it does happen from timeto-time. The frequency of these breakdowns is such that
Talon is locked in a cycle of growth and destruction.

237

