The x-boat route to Rhylanor, by way of Fennec, has long
been contentious. A message from Magash to Rhylanor
takes a minimum of five weeks; more if it goes by every
link on the chain. A link using the existing scout service
base at Bevey in the Rhylanor subsector would cut this
to three weeks, with messages reaching the naval base
at Jae Tellona in two. Funding is not the problem; the
cost would not be great. Yet despite endless lobbying,
the existing route remains in place for reasons rooted in
regional politics.
The 195th Fleet is assigned to Sabine but concentrates
most of its efforts on the primary cluster. It has no bases
in the backwater region to spinward and maintains
only a patchy presence. Operations are often on a
‘fire brigade’ basis, with task forces concentrated at
Thengin then sent into a system to clean it up. This
works for a time but is no substitute for a steady, visible
presence as it tends to push troubles around instead of
eliminating them.
Opinions vary about this approach. It is easy to show,
in terms of hard numbers, that securing the main trade

240

lanes justifies tax credits spent on the fleet better than
sitting over remote low-population worlds. However,
there are those who are adamant the fleet is being kept
out of the region to allow illicit business to thrive.

AMRITSAR

Amritsar has an uncomfortably dense atmosphere,
which has the effect of making its taint more serious.
The starport is built on high ground where atmospheric
pressure is a little lower but the thick, warm air is still
uncomfortable and most people prefer to remain inside
air-conditioned buildings.
Amritsar is primarily notable for its ruins, generally
assumed to date from the Ancients period, and have
been the subject of several publicly available books
and vid documentaries. Occasionally a new wild theory
emerges and the datanet is flooded with ‘shocking
revelations Ancients scientists don’t want you to know’
but these rarely amount to more than a sales pitch for
a questionably researched publication or rather basic
attempt to increase advertising revenue.

