There are six known sites on Amritsar. Each takes the
form of a ring of broken crystal pylons around a plaza
of resilient dark stone-like material. Four of the plazas
are in reasonably good condition; two are weed-choked
and riddled with cracks and gaps. No energy signatures
have been detected and there do not appear to be any
additional structures nearby. The purpose of these sites
is unknown.

ARA PACIS

ANOMALY FIVE

The highport is independent of any of Ara Pacis’ nations
and owned by the Count of Ara Pacis, who has an
extensive ‘estate’ within the orbital structure in addition
to his fief on-planet. It is not unusual for the Imperial
nobility to own business assets, although being the
owner-operator of an entire starport is not common. This
arrangement provides the count with a large income
and also distances him from the affairs of Ara Pacis’
independent settlements.

Anomaly Five is Red Zoned, potentially causing
problems for jump-1 traffic in the local cluster as
there is no alternative route to Thengin and Magash, a
problem solved by the presence of an orbital fuelling
station around the system’s outermost gas giant. This
custom-built installation is not a starport and does
not welcome visitors. It is manned by civilians on
contract to the Imperial Navy and protected by a small
fighter detachment based at one end of the station.
Ships passing through the neighbouring systems are
directed to the station and warned that approaching the
‘mainworld’ is forbidden.
Anomaly Five is a small moon of the innermost gas
giant, designated the system’s mainworld in the 400s.
It was Red Zoned in the 690s, essentially forbidding
the whole system to unauthorised traffic. This was
an unusual measure, especially given the system’s
location on a jump-1 link. The Imperial Navy does not
discuss the reasons for the interdiction but maintains
a standing patrol at all times. This varies from a
handful of escorts to a destroyer, and occasionally an
old cruiser is assigned to watch Anomaly Five for a few
weeks. Challenges to vessels violating the Red Zone are
robust, involving at the very least a boarding and close
questioning. The navy has shown willing to fire on those
who do not provide a reason for their presence.
The Imperial authorities deny rumours that secret
research is being undertaken on the surface of Anomaly
Five and most records of the initial surveys have been
expunged. However, there is some evidence that early
planetologists found large mass concentrations deep
under the surface of Anomaly Five. Speculation ranges
from incredible Ancient wonders awaiting discovery (as
always) to deposits of superheavy elements. Whatever
the truth may be, the Imperium is keen to ensure that
nobody gets too close to Anomaly Five, though whose
protection this is for remains a mystery.

Ara Pacis is the most important of a small cluster of four
worlds in the spinward-rimward corner of Sabine. It is
a link on the jump-2 route between Thengin and Mora,
and is sometimes marketed as ‘the last good port before
Mora’. As such, Ara Pacis sees a considerable amount
of through traffic and makes a great deal of profit from
interstellar trade.

Whilst the highport is quite impressive, Ara Pacis itself
is not. A small world largely covered in water, it has only
primitive life on land. This is largely due to the very thin
atmosphere, which has not prevented the oceans from
developing their own ecosystem. This includes some
very large ‘sea monsters’ and huge number of lesser
creatures. Kelp farming is a major industry on Ara Pacis,
with produce shipped offworld aboard bulk freighters.
Ara Pacis is balkanised, although with a population
of only six million this does not mean quite the same
as on a world with several high-population nations. In
the case of Ara Pacis, balkanisation means there are
several small cities, each independent of the others.
Communications between the cities are poor; indeed
there are a couple that might as well be on another
planet for all the interaction they have with their
neighbours. All cities have their own downport,
from which shuttles provide a regular service to
the orbital port.
The cities were founded in areas with good natural
resources, most of them as ‘corp towns’ by mining
companies. Over time, these frontier settlements
developed into cities in their own right but some still
show the legacy of initial haphazard growth. The mining
companies were not unduly worried about the long-term
development of what were essentially expedient places
for workers to live and facilities were added as needed
or when funds permitted, resulting in a messy layout
confuses visitors and even some residents.

241

