Inar’s industrial and economic strength arises in part
from these fortunate astrographic circumstances and
partly from the industrial power of its major worlds.
Foremost among these are Starn, Liri and Kubishush, all
of which lie within Inar’s inner sphere of influence.
Inar is a candidate for sector capital, a fact its duke is
keen to remind everyone of. The Duchy of Inar is the
most powerful political faction in the sector, well ahead
of its rivals Atsah and Vincennes, and is constantly at
odds with the latter. Usually this is nothing more
serious than economic and political one-upmanship,
but local politics can become vicious and have at
times led to proxy wars being fought between the
two subsector dukes.
It is probable that at some point the Emperor will
appoint one of the Dukes of Deneb as sector duke, with
authority over the subsector duchies. Whilst in the long
term this might strengthen the sector economically and
provide greater security, any such move would be so
vigorously contested that it would be counterproductive
in the short to medium term. Thus the present situation
is allowed to continue even though it is not at all good
for the region as a whole.
An Imperial Navy Depot is located on the trailing side
of Inar, close to the astrographical centre of the sector.
The depot is home to the Deneb Fleet, benefiting the
local economy with its voracious need for high-tech
components. The subsector fleet – the 257th – has
its headquarters at Inar and works closely with the
subsector duke but the sector fleet, on the other
hand, tries to stay out of local politics. In this, it has
mixed success. All major nobles in the sector have
representatives at headquarters, who press for assets
to be assigned to their regions or compete for naval
contracts to benefit their subsector’s businesses.

ASHASI

Ashasi has the highest population in the subsector
despite it being a hell-hole with a corrosive atmosphere.
Its underground cities are overpopulated and rundown for the most part, although the ruling elite live
in splendour, a result of natural decline and economic
downturn, coupled with self-serving decisions.
Ashashi was the subject of a ‘gold rush’ during early
Imperial expansion into the sector, after the discovery
of large deposits of both basic and rare minerals.
Some deposits were extensive, enabling large-scale
extraction that opened up artificial caverns, which could
have destabilised the surface above if not filled in or
supported. Instead, they were extended and expanded,
with structures built as both supports and living places.

246

As extraction efforts spread out and down from the
original caverns, people moved in and began operating
ore processing facilities and factories. These were
naturally followed by shops, theatres and all manner of
small businesses. One-by-one, the worked-out caverns
were filled with people enjoying a good standard of living
beneath the surface of their unpleasant world.
The good times went on for centuries, with Ashashi’s
extensive mineral exports and smaller quantities of
finished goods funding expansion into new areas of
the planet. Eventually, however, it became necessary
to delve ever deeper to find viable deposits and
production costs rose with each expansion. Ashasi
enjoyed a renaissance based upon selling vast amounts
of redundant mining and ore-processing equipment but
this money was not spent wisely and when it was gone
there was no prospect of transitioning to a different
economic sector.
Today, Ashasi is run-down and insular, its starport allowed
to decay to the point where it is barely worthy of the
name. The populace are kept in line by a combination of
propaganda and force, and the depressed economy helps
the dictator maintain his popularity. Strict control of the
job market and flow of consumer goods allows the elite to
reward loyalty and punish those who do not toe the line.
A constant diet of propaganda paints the situation as a
difficult time that the world can get through if everyone
pulls together and vilifies dissidents as undermining the
chances of recovery.
At present, enough of the populace are on board that
dissent is low-key and easily dealt with but as conditions
worsen and no sign of recovery presents itself there is
a real danger that Ashasi’s society may rip itself apart.
The Imperial authorities are aware of the situation but
do not want to get involved in a potentially complex
and dangerous situation. Besides, the Imperium does
not involve itself in the politics of individual worlds
unless intervention is necessary. At present, the troubles
brewing on Ashasi do not threaten any other world or the
security of the Imperium as a whole, so they remain the
problem of the world’s population. No Imperial noble or
official wants to stake his career on a solution that has
little chance of working.

INAR

Inar is a tidally locked rockball planet, with one face
permanently baked by its primary and the other exposed
to the cold of space. Its trace atmosphere does nothing
to alleviate the harsh conditions. It was colonised, like
many similar worlds, for administrative and economic
reasons, and targeted for rapid expansion of its mining
and industrial sectors.

