As a hub for local development, Inar was a logical
choice for an administrative centre and was eventually
named as the subsector capital. Its population stabilised
at around 90 million a long time ago, with the vast
majority of permanent citizens dwelling in subterranean
cities. There are some surface settlements, most of
which are mining towns whose local population is
supplemented by large numbers of contracted workers
and their families. These are not counted among
the world’s population in most databases as they are
workers, not residents.
As the seat of the subsector duke, Inar attracts
petitioners, business representatives and hangers-on in
large numbers. These are received at the Duke of Inar’s
orbital station, built at his own expense – sort of – as a
subsector capital that was ‘in the subsector rather than
on the planet’. Supposedly this was a symbol of the
duke’s commitment to the affairs of his whole area of
interest but the reality is more complex than that.
The orbital station is very grand and whilst it was indeed
begun using the duke’s own funds most of the money
came from the Imperial Navy’s budget. A political
masterstoke enabled the duke to co-locate his orbital
palace with the navy’s projected base for the system.
As a result, part of the orbital fortress is private and
controlled by the duke whilst most of it – including the
heavy defences that all major naval installations have
– is staffed by the navy. Essentially, the Duke of Inar
conned the navy into building his palace and protecting
it for him.
This situation is not to the liking of the Imperial Navy,
partially because of the way its funding board was
manoeuvred but mostly because it places the offices of
Naval Intelligence and a number of senior naval officers
within easy reach of a subsector duke who constantly
interferes in what should be purely military matters, and
who has no qualms about using the navy in his schemes.
The duke makes use of the naval maintenance facilities
at the base for his own ships, which are based out of
the same structure. Whilst this is irregular, his influence
is such that the navy has to indulge him up to a point.
Again, the Duke of Inar is getting the navy to pay for
his possessions, which causes friction with other nobles
who are not so favoured. Naval attaches elsewhere find
themselves defending this position, as the alternative is
to acknowledge that they have been played by the duke.
Civilian traffic goes to the orbital starport, not the
palace/naval base and only naval or ducal vessels
may approach the palace. The port is extensive and

well equipped to handle high-volume trade but every
merchant factor worth his salt knows that the ‘real
business’ goes on at the palace. The orbital port’s
business suites are fine for buying a few hundred tons
of freight but if you want a big contract you have to get
permission to set up an office at the palace, living the
lifestyle and playing along with the duke’s pretentions of
being the sector, not subsector, duke. This was of course
the real plan behind the orbital palace. It is fit for a
sector duke or even an archduke, if the post of Archduke
of Deneb is ever created. Naturally, the Dukes of Inar
each intend that honour to be theirs.

KUBISHUSH

Kubishush is the homeworld of the Gl’lu, an unpleasant
looking but friendly and cultured people who evolved
despite the hostility of their world. Kubishush suffers
from rampant volcanism, which is sufficiently bad that
the Gl’lu language has multiple words for ‘destroyed by
a volcano’. A Gl’lu can describe the exact circumstances
and extent of damage, how long reconstruction or
rehabitation will take and the likelihood of a repeat
eruption in an impressive and grim shorthand that would
be unnecessary elsewhere.
In addition, Kubishush has a corrosive atmosphere.
The Gl’lu evolved to use ammonia extracted from their
planet’s atmosphere and require specialist life-support
equipment when visiting other worlds. Part of the
extensive orbital starport is set up for their needs but
most is maintained in an environment suitable for other
sentient races.
The port sees a lot of through-traffic but few visitors
choose to land on Kubishush. Gl’lu spacecraft are
designed to be resistant to their world’s atmosphere and
regularly ply between port and surface, with fuel tankers
especially important to the operation of the port; vast
quantities of liquid hydrogen fuel are consumed by a
working starport. Specialist vessels skim hydrocarbons
from the system’s gas giant to provide a portion of
the necessary fuel but most comes from plants on the
surface, which process the world’s chemical-rich waters
into useable fuel and other chemical compounds.
Gl’lu settlements are extremely resilient, both in terms
of damage resistance and their ability to clear away
wreckage and rebuild. This is a state of mind as well as
physical capability; even the safest Gl’lu communities
will sooner or later deal with severe disaster. Gl’lu can
typically keep functioning amid a level of chaos that
would inspire panic and despondency among humans.

247

