MINDE’S STAR

The Minde’s Star system is named, unusually, for
its primary rather than its mainworld, because the
‘mainworld’ is inhabited only by Scout Service personnel
and scientists studying the highly unusual star. Minde’s
Star is a flare star that changes in brilliance in an
unpredictable manner. Long study has allowed the
scientific staff to establish rules of thumb allowing some
forecasting of what might happen in the next hours,
days and weeks but this is based on observations of the
star rather than any mathematical model. No cycle or
cycle-of-cycles has ever been identified.
The system is not considered hazardous enough to merit
Amber Zone classification but very few vessels go there.
No significant trade is to be had at the starport and the
needs of the 30 thousand or so inhabitants are met by
regular supply runs. A handful of merchants visit from
time-to-time, mainly selling luxury items to individuals
or the scout station’s vendors. The occasional hopeful
prospector vessel takes a look at a gas giant moon or
one of the system’s rockball worlds but to date no find
has been made worthy of the effort required to extract it.

MORNINGLORI

Morninglori is named for its spectacular sky views.
The mainworld is a gas giant satellite, with the giant
planet visible in the sky even in daytime. Reflected
light from the giant makes true darkness very rare
on Morninglori, although periods of very dim twilight
occur every rotation. The day/twilight cycle is very
rapid, making a traditional work in the day/rest at night
lifestyle meaningless. The inhabitants’ lives are keyed

248

to artificial light indoors and clocks set to the standard
Imperial day. Words like ‘tomorrow’ can confuse
newcomers, as they can refer either to the standard
Imperial day or the next full daylight period, depending
on inflection and context.
Parts of Morninglori remain unexplored, with the 100
thousand or so population centred around the port
and nearby small cities. Whilst a very pretty planet,
Morninglori is unimportant in the grand scheme of
sector politics. It ‘missed the boat’ during the early
expansion of the region and today remains a backwater
whose modest exports of agricultural goods are
insufficient to buy the world a place on the interstellar
stage. This is to the liking of most residents, who
simply want to get on with their daily lives and let
the universe go by.

OTOMISI

Otomisi is a hostile world located within the sector’s
largest cluster, important mainly for its chemical
industry with few visitors descending to the surface
other than for business. The high-quality orbital port
sees a considerable volume of traffic but Otomisi’s
balance of trade is very much skewed in the direction
of specialist chemical exports and everything the
population needs as imports.
Otomisi’s exotic atmosphere can become highly toxic
under the right conditions, as chemicals are liberated
from the ocean to form dense fogs. These roll over low
ground and into valleys, making these regions hazardous
to enter. However, this phenomenon also makes

