extraction of chemical compounds relatively easy, so
there are numerous installations along the coasts. These
have a sealed environment, with workers trained in the
use of protective equipment but receive few visitors.
Anyone who does not have to work in the toxic fogs of
Otomisi chooses not to.
Not all areas are affected. High ground is generally
safe, as are inland areas. However, unusual temperature
and pressure conditions can cause a toxic fog to form
in areas not normally prone to them. The small cities
of Otomisi are located in such areas but precautions
are still necessary. These settlements are more like
workplaces than homes and most of the population
are permanent residents, working in support industries
or the chemical extraction, processing and research
facilities. Without these facilities and their community
of offworld workers, Otomisi’s economy would collapse.
There is a small amount of industry on-planet but it is
insufficient to supply the population. Mutterings about
self-sufficiency are common from time-to-time, but it is
simply more economical to import what is needed than
investing in facilities to make it.
The unusual conditions on Otomisi have attracted
the interest of the Scout Service, which maintains
a research and training facility on-planet. This not
only studies the conditions required for the notorious
fogs and their effects on the local ecosystem but
also conducts hostile-environment training for scouts
regularly rotated through the base.

PECENA

Pecena is a habitable world, apart from the taint carried
in its atmosphere, with a tiny population entirely
restricted to a small town at what passes for a downport.
The reasons for this are shrouded in layer upon layer
of bureaucratic obfuscation, with endless circular
references to feasibility studies and pre-colonisation
investment forecasts. The reality is that the Imperial
Army and Colonial Office have been fighting over Pecena
for centuries.
Early in the expansion into Deneb, the Imperial Army
sought a forward base at which to conduct large-scale
training exercises. Pecena was at the time uninhabited
and earmarked for development into a major base.
However, funds were diverted to other projects and work
had not begun when the 20-year window for the project
closed. The Colonial Office began to seek investors for a
major settlement effort and made considerable progress
when the Army derailed the project in the Imperial

courts. Successive Emperors have ruled on the Pecena
Question but neither side has the resources to stand
ready to act the moment a decision is handed down.
Plans must be made anew and each time a renewed
objection is made further wrangling begins.
Thus, whilst Pecena has an extensive orbital port with
naval and scout bases present, there is only a token
presence groundside. The population are citizenemployees of the Pecena Agricultural Corporation,
which has license to operate robotic farms on the world
regardless of what the Colonial Office or Imperial Army
have to say about it. This license comes courtesy of
the Imperial Navy, which wanted a reliable source of
food for its orbital base and was not prepared to wait a
thousand years for the Pecena Question to be settled.
In the meantime, the Imperial Army uses parts of
Pecena for exercises. It wanted a major base through
which personnel could be rotated but has to make
do with a rather basic landing area surrounded by a
permanently temporary camp. Live-fire exercises are
common, with very powerful weapons deployed on the
artillery ranges. The tough, thistle-like local vegetation
has become a legendary nuisance among regiments
using the training areas, with veterans having little good
to say about Pecena’s ecosystem.

ZEEN

Lying on the outer edge of the sector’s main cluster.
Zeen is not on the way to anywhere and sees little traffic
through its low-quality starport. The world’s three million
or so inhabitants are almost entirely Droyne, with a small
community of Imperial Scout Service personnel who
conduct observations but do not interact with the natives;
not because the local population are unfriendly as such
but beacuse they behave in ways that humans simply do
not understand. The Droyne of Zeen may develop cordial
relations with a merchant ship crew over many years,
then completely ignore them on their next visit.
The Droyne of Zeen have a stable TL6 society, although
some of their devices are sufficiently alien that their
function cannot be guessed, let alone any level of
sophistication. They do not seem particularly interested in
progress, nor do they generally get involved in affairs of the
outside universe. There have been exceptions, however.
Several Droyne vessels operate out of Zeen, although they
cannot have been built there and can be encountered in
ports across the sector. Droyne from Zeen have intervened
on other worlds from time-to-time, notably coming to the
assistance of the Krissukyoya on Giikusu.

249

