sold elsewhere. While the damage was considerable
elsewhere, the damage to Dunmag was bad enough that
it affected the reconstruction of the whole sector.
Today, Dunmag is a market more than a producer of
goods and its position between Inar and Atsah further
contributes to this status. Trade ships from the larger
economies of the sector compete for business in
Dunmag, sometimes to the benefit of the locals, who
can negotiate a good deal or benefit from one major
player undercutting another to reduce market share. On
the other hand, there is little money for investment in
high-tech or high-value industry in a region with plenty
just over the subsector borders.
Dunmag’s subsector fleet, the 125th, is concentrated
largely in the coreward end of the subsector, with only
minor patrol assets based elsewhere. This deployment
strategy dates from a time – which some would say has
not entirely passed – when corsair raids into Antra (to
coreward) were such a problem that the 125th Fleet was
routinely expected to provide ‘surge’ patrolling capability
or cover routine deployments whilst the Antra subsector
forces launched an attack on known corsair bases.
Proposals to move subsector fleet assets to the rimward
end of the subsector have come to nothing, largely due
to the expense of building new bases in an area not
seriously threatened.

ANDALIA

Andalia is a water world, with little in the way of useable
land above sea level. Those areas that do exist were
rendered unusable by nuclear bombardment in the
600s, when forces loyal to the Humbolt family made an
example of Andalia’s small cities. The reasons for this
action are complex and contentious, with few historians
agreeing on whether the attack was properly sanctioned
or the work of rogue elements with a score to settle. It
was claimed that the Humbolts’ enemies were building
a base on one of the larger islands but any
evidence of this was eradicated along with all other
major settlements.
Today, the land is safe to visit but the population has an
aversion to doing so and will not even consider growing
food there. The world’s atmospheric taint was made
worse by radioactive fallout, though this has long since
dispersed. All the same, Andalia has a reputation as a
poisoned world which is at least partially deserved.
Andalia was repopulated in the years after the Civil
War by people who were assigned there rather than
by choice. This was one of several resettlement
programmes that created resentful populations with
little love for the Imperium and to this day, Andalia
remains a backwater. It has been a haven for dissidents

252

and criminals, and is thought to have harboured corsairs
based out of small, remote islands. No such bases have
been found but the Imperial Navy monitors the world
and conducts searches from time-to-time – which does
nothing to improve relations with the locals.

GIIKUSU

Giikusu is the homeworld of the Kirissukyoya, a minor
race encountered across Deneb and sometimes beyond.
Around -2000 their TL7 society destroyed itself in
a global conflict, setting the survivors on a path to
extinction. The Kirissukyoya were saved by Droyne
intervention beginning around -1500. This was on a
fairly small scale but sufficient to preserve enough
Kirissukyoya that they could establish production sites
and eventually a little low-tech industry.
The Kirissukyoya recovery was greatly hampered by vargr
raids, to which at first the Kirissukyoya had no counter.
Eventually their communities were able to establish
defences sufficient to make raiding them unprofitable
and by the time Imperial scouts contacted them the
Kirissukyoya were on the road to re-establishing a
world state. The Imperium provided some protection
from raids and low-key support for infrastructure and
technology growth and by 180-200 the Kirissukyoya had
begun building jump-capable vessels.
Some of these ships took part in the Vargr Campaigns.
Although they were small and crude compared to
Imperial vessels, the Kirissukyoya ships had crews
with scores to settle and willing to take reckless risks
to ensure raids on their homeworld were stopped for
good. By the time the Vargr Campaigns were over, the
Kirissukyoya were firmly established as a spacefaring
race and had created communities on other worlds
where they mingled freely with other Imperial citizens.

IMLAAR

Imlaar is an agricultural world notable as a stopover for
jump-2 ships crossing the central region of Dunmag.
Its day-cycle is unusual due to interactions with the
system’s type K (orange dwarf) companion star. The
amount of additional light and energy from this star
varies over time, whilst the central G type (yellow dwarf)
provides more constant light.
This results in complex seasonal changes, making
farming a difficult prospect for those without the
requisite knowledge. The agriculturalists of Imlaar have
been working their land for many generations and have
an almost instinctive understanding of it, switching from
fast-growing high-yield crops to hardy staples across
seasons. Imlaar’s agricultural output is thus greater than
its population would normally be expected to achieve.

