Imlaar’s central port is one of many export stations
for its produce and occasionally overrun by livestock
when one of the industrial-sized holding areas is left
unattended. Huge warehouses full of grain make
good money for the world’s people but hardly inspire
excitement in visitors. Most ships refuel and move on,
perhaps picking up some quality steak for the next leg of
the journey but rarely stopping for longer than necessary.

PAGAMIN

Pagamin’s is a small, dry world located close to
Dunmag, name-world and at one time prospective
capital of the subsector. Never heavily populated,
Pagamin was a base during the bad war of the 600s
and extensively bombarded from orbit using deadfall
ordnance. The degree of overkill was enormous,
suggesting that Pagamin was a broad hint to other
worlds of the consequences of continued opposition.
As usual, the Humbolts are blamed for the atrocity but
it is unclear which faction delivered the fatal blows. It
is known that Pagamin did not fall easily. The Battle
of Pagamin claimed several major warships from both
sides before the Humbolts’ fleet broke through to the
planet. Some accounts claim they landed troops and
captured the world, although its significance is unclear.
These accounts have it that the Humbolts were then
defeated in a second space battle and their groundside
forces obliterated from orbit along with whatever was so
important on the surface.
Close orbit around Pagamin is a graveyard of decaying
wrecks. Some have been salvaged by specially licensed
vessels operating out of the world’s very basic starport,
but most were simply towed to a safer orbit and left
there. The whole orbital sector is a designated war
grave, and since the only reason Pagamin has a port
is to salvage these ships, those without a pressing
need do not go there. It is a utilitarian and rather grim
place, surrounded by military cemeteries where the
vacuum-preserved bodies of crews are laid to rest with
perfunctory but solemn services.

SHINORASUS

Shinorasus falls into the category of a ‘handy gravity
well’ rather than inhabited world. A small community
on the surface works mainly in ice-mining plants,
harvesting ice from the world’s poles and deep craters
for cracking liquid hydrogen. Some of these plants are
permanent; others are crawlers or large grav vehicles
that proceed from one ice field to another when the
extracted hydrogen has run dry. There is a landing field
at each of the larger installations but Shinorasus could
not be said to have a starport as such.

The orbital port is another matter. It is arguably the
best starport in the subsector, with extensive trade and
freight-handling facilities. Unfortunately, these stand
largely idle. Shinorasus starport was constructed by a
consortium of shipping companies and business factors
to take advantage of the very large investment expected
in the area. This never materialised and the smart
money got out after a few years. What is left is a grand
shell gradually being cannibalised to keep
up appearances.
Most ships that use the port are small traders rather than
the high-volume freightliners it was intended to service.
These bring in revenue but nowhere near enough. Likewise
the shipyards, intended to construct large vessels for
corporate clients, take what work they can get. The port’s
lifeline in recent years has been a contract to build lowcost patrol vessels for various world governments. Even this
has been threatened at times, as similar ships are available
elsewhere at more attractive prices
There are segments of the port still supplied with power
and air but which are largely abandoned other than
by technical crews looking for components to salvage.
These segments are occupied by an unknown number of
transients, living ‘off the grid’ yet still having access to
the port’s datanet and facilities.

TWINIAN

Twinian was never an important world, due to its very
thin atmosphere of unbreathable gas. This was lost
when the surface was bombarded with nuclear weapons
and deadfall ordnance during the bad war of the 600s.
Some of the smaller sealed communities survived the
initial attack but this just meant a slow death as life
support equipment ran down. The world was abandoned
for many decades before being repopulated to support a
small starport.
Unlike Andalia, there was little difficulty in finding
people willing to move to Twinian – with no atmosphere
remaining there was little danger of contamination away
from the craters – but a lack of investment created a
dead-end community dependent on imports coming
through the starport. Other towns were eventually built,
largely as mining concerns, and are essentially selfgoverning. In addition, scavengers moved into the ruins
of some settlements spared in the original attacks and
corsairs have possibly used these areas as bases.
Twinian has a small scout base at the starport, which
supports jump-2 communications across the middle of
the subsector. A detachment of scientists works out of the
base, studying the gradual outgassing from Twinian’s rocky
surface that will someday give it an atmosphere of sorts.

253

