Jump Bridge

Atsah maintains a bridge on a single, very large
ice asteroid (map hex 2814). This links 10 worlds
in the Dunmag and Atsah subsectors with a jump1 main, which begins in trailing Atsah and runs
throughout the Ian and Khouth subsectors in
Corridor. In total, this main contains 21 systems in
Deneb and another 20 worlds in Corridor.
The public reason for this bridge is to promote
jump-1 merchant traffic in the subsector. An
unstated, but generally understood, reason is to
permit jump-1 access to Dunmag, the ostensible
capital world of the subsector. This allows Atsah
to exert influence on Dunmag with relatively cheap
ships. In contrast, Inar not only needs a minimum
of jump-2, but it also has a greater distance to
cover: 14 parsecs instead of Atsah’s seven.

The Dukes of Atsah have always put their disputes
with Vincennes and Inar, and their own interests,
ahead of those of the Imperium. The dukes have a
history of permitting favoured factions to get away with
extreme bending of rules and only intervening to stop
conflicts when external pressure becomes too much or
their favourites start losing. The region has become a
constant low-level nuisance, with the occasional major
crisis and given its strategic importance this is of grave
concern to the Imperial authorities.
The subsector fleet – the 88th – is heavily politicised
and whilst it does the job of suppressing independent
pirates, it tends to become embroiled in local disputes
and turn a blind eye to ‘internal’ transgressions. Sector
fleet assets are routinely assigned to conduct gunboat
diplomacy in the region and remind all local factions
that there are limits to wayward behaviour, even if the
subsector duke is willing to tolerate their actions.

ATADL

Located close to the main trade lanes, Atadl is a
high-population, high-tech world that exports goods
across the sector and far beyond. Its two billion or so
inhabitants are mostly Vargr, with a few humans and
other species. Society is very much outward-looking;
Atadl considers itself a part of the wider universe and
attempts to exert influence wherever possible.

256

The world has strong ties with Tukera Lines, which
maintains a recruitment centre and training academy at
the starport. Naturally, it is a matter of pride to produce
the best graduates and highest proportion of successful
applicants, and thus the ‘Tukera mindset’ is prevalent
throughout Atadl society. Education and art reflects
spacer culture, with a strong corporate bias.
This attitude is not without its opponents. There is
a growing movement resisting the corporate-service
lifestyle, with bohemian communities of artists, free
thinkers and dropouts surrounding influential figures
or frequenting certain social establishments. These
‘reactionary bars’ have become chic places for daring
young Vargr to be seen flouting their society’s norms –
just a little – but are not seen as subversive or a threat
to the stability of Atadl’s well entrenched social order.

ATSAH

Atsah is the seat of the Duke of Atsah and the subsector
capital. It is a garden world, very suitable for habitation,
but has a relatively low population considering its
importance, the result of a deliberate policy restricting
immigration and encouraging citizens to move offworld
by keeping the cost of living high. A guaranteed-income
system ensures that those who choose to emigrate are
paid at levels appropriate to Atsah’s expensive society,
even if they are living somewhere much cheaper.
The money for this comes from the subsector budget’s
social development funds and is extremely contentious.
However, the policy is kept in place by regular
bargaining sessions, in which one hoped-for reward is
permission to move to Atsah with its very high standard
of living – with an expenses subsidy from the subsector
budget of course.
The population includes around 55 million Vargr and
15 million members of other species, most notably
humans. The majority of the population is concentrated
in large, high-tech cities but there are extensive country
estates and small towns scattered all over the planet.
The former typically belong to those who have served
the duke or subsector administration well and may be
held in perpetuity or only as long as the duke’s favour
is retained. The towns are mostly agricultural centres
providing a modest income from exports.
The subsector administrative centre is a small city in
its own right, located in beautiful countryside with
recreation areas nearby. Some of these are restricted by
rank or special privilege; others are open to anyone. The
duke lives at the heart of this administrative complex,
which has its own spaceport manned by the duke’s

