own household forces. Everything about the city – and
the orbital starport – is designed to impress and subtly
(but not too subtly) remind visitors just how powerful
Atsah is. From neat rows of smartly uniformed guards on
parade during the duchy’s many ceremonial occasions,
to ducal frigates passing overhead as they proceed
towards their landing at the spaceport, Atsah’s capital is
a showcase of power and splendour.

KIIRINDOR

Kiirindor is notable primarily as an x-boat station and
naval base and provides an essential link for jump-4
traffic headed for Usani. Less capable ships have to
make a long transit through Dunmag, adding weeks or
even months to the trip. The world itself is unremarkable
except for its unusual government.
Kiirindor is governed from Maelstrom, site of Imperial
Research Station Gamma. This was originally an
emergency measure imposed when local governance
collapsed several decades ago but has since become the
norm. Delegations of administrators and directors are
sent to Kiirindor to provide leadership to a populace who
have become so used to the arrangement that a proposal
to return to self-governance was rejected by the vast
majority of citizens.
It has been claimed that the administration of Kiirindor
is overseen by the research station on Maelstrom but

this is simply not true. The story has its origin in a vid
drama of a few years back and has no basis in reality.
Kiirindor is governed by feudal technocrats
from Maelstrom, not mad scientists from Research
Station Gamma.

SEGAN

Segan is known to have been terraformed at some point
in the distant past, by unknown entities. The result
was an extremely arid but borderline habitable planet
with no life of its own. All species currently present
were transplanted by the terraformers or later arrivals
including humans and Vargr. These species included the
Segani, a minor race who are intolerant of jump travel.
Their original place of origin has never been determined
and probably lies outside of Charted Space.
Segan’s location on the x-boat route ensures its port
sees large volumes of through-trade and it is a major
hub for commercial traffic in the local cluster. A jump4 service is maintained to Kiirindor, with a few jump-3
vessels proceeding to Torm and the surrounding worlds
in Dunmag by way of gas giant refuelling at Erita. This
is considered something of an adventure by first-time
space travellers. Despite skimming operations being
quite routine, there is a small element of danger, and
thus excitement, which is not to be had during the usual
port-to-port transits made by commercial starships.

257

