counts than local stability. Askigaak and Vincennes
have been known to throw obstacles in one another’s
way for purely political reasons, often hamstringing
worthy projects.

in many subsector fleets, it is impossible to
please both dukes as well as the local less senior
nobility and the fleet finds itself enmeshed in endless
political wrangling.

With no subsector duke in place, the spinward-coreward
cluster around Daumier tends to look to Mora in the
Spinward Marches for leadership and support. Most
worlds in this area are undeveloped but Mater Nova has
a sufficiently large economy to benefit from its position
at the extreme end of the Spinward Main.

ASKIGAAK

The remainder of the subsector’s worlds are mostly
concentrated in two small clusters of no great
importance. These areas are markets for the huge
economies of Mora and Vincennes, with large jump2 freighters making the rounds on a frequent – if not
always regular – basis.
The 196th Fleet, charged with maintaining security and
stability in the subsector, both suffers and benefits
from a lack of political direction. Its bases all lie in the
primary cluster, requiring long transits to reach distant
patrol stations. Under normal circumstances, Imperial
fleets are advised by the local high nobility – although
they are not commanded directly by those nobles – but
without a subsector duke in place the 196th Fleet lacks
a clear political strategy of its own and is subject to the
influences of the Dukes of Vincennes and Mora. Whilst
its senior officers have more autonomy than is the case

Askigaak is the seat of the Count of Askigaak, who
has ambitions to one day be Duke of Star Lane. The
world’s population numbers around 90 billion, most of
whom are from the native sentient species, the Sigka.
A few million humans and other offworlders dwell on
Askigaak’s few useable land masses.
The human population is ruled directly by the Count of
Askigaak, an unusual situation but not entirely unknown.
An efficient bureaucratic apparatus implements the
count’s edicts and in general the world is smoothly
governed. The starport code refers to the generallyavailable landing sites – all traffic through the small but
efficient highport requires a license from the Office of
Interstellar Affairs, one of many specialised departments
set up by the government.
Licences are not cheap but easy enough to obtain since
they exist primarily to make money for the count. This is
technically a restriction of interstellar trade and thus a
violation of Imperial High Law but the count gets away
with it partly by way of legal obfuscation – presenting
the licensing arrangement as a means of paying for the

SACHUPE
ANIMAL
Sachupe
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS

HITS
SPEED
130
24m
Melee (natural) 1, Recon 1, Survival 1
Grab and Bite (8D)
Armour (+6), Heightened Senses,
Large (+6)
BEHAVIOUR Carnivore, Hunter
The Sachupe have been described as ‘horrific tentacled
whales… only worse’. They are large deep-water
predators capable of a surprising turn of speed, although
they cannot turn quickly. Sachupe generally do not need
to; their favoured attack is a rapid dash at the target
with grabbing tentacles or an ambush from behind
seabed cover. Smaller prey are grabbed and stuffed
into the creature’s maw, whilst larger creatures may be
rammed before being dragged to the mouth. Sachupe
are adept at manoeuvring their prey so the first bite
cripples the tail of a swimming creature.

260

Sachupe are not a threat to an underwater colony’s
structures but frequently mistake seabed farming or
maintenance craft for rivals, prey or potential mates.
They are intelligent enough to know that submarines
contain edible creatures and have been known to drag
one down below its crush depth or ram a vessel against
rocks to crack its hull. Groups will sometimes gather
close to an underwater settlement and drift outside,
coming right up to viewing ports to peer in and testing
the surface with their tentacles.

