orbital port he built with his own funds – and partly
through complex political wrangling that allows the
count to derail any investigation into his
business practices.
The Sigka are self-governing within their own underwater
communities and in constant conflict with oceangoing predators such as the Sachupe. Some leave their
homeworld and journey around the subsector but for the
most part they are content to remain in their ocean homes.

CHAOSHEO

Chaosheo is neither somewhere nor nowhere. Lying
on the fringe of Deneb, it is more or less a forgotten
backwater that occasionally becomes entangled in the
cross-border politics of Vincennes and Mora. For many
years, Chaosheo was Red Zoned as it is the homeworld
of an aquatic sentient species called the Shi’awei. In
recent years, the interdiction has been lifted and some
settlement has taken place.
The world’s population figure of 60 million or so is an
estimate and a vague one at that. Researchers do not
really know how many Shi’awei there are since their
society is complex and fragmented. Carrying out a
population census of an uncooperative species that
lives in deep water is a challenging task even for the
Scout Service.
The human population numbers only a few hundred, all
of whom dwell in a single settlement originally built as
a research base to study the native people. As always,
supporting industries grew up around the rudimentary
port and the world gradually acquired a ‘native’ human

population. Interactions between these people and the
true indigenous inhabitants are uncommon except for
underwater exploration and research missions by Scout
Service personnel. However, humans are beginning to
establish a fishing industry that might cause friction in
the near future.

KERNAL

Kernal is a warm and fertile world, with large agricultural
surpluses sold across the subsector. Its starport almost
always has at least one ‘grain ship’ (a general term for a
bulk agricultural transport) in dock and smaller vessels
can usually find cargoes of high-value luxury foodstuffs
on offer.
Kernal has a population of around three million
humans in addition to around 27 million members of
the indigenous sentient species, the Yafizethe. The
horrifically complex politics of the Yafizethe have led to
them becoming extremely skilled diplomats sought out
by clients in distant reaches of space.
The world was only united under a single government
in the last century. Before this it was subdivided into
small nations and city-states, which were often in
conflict with one another. Coming to an agreement over
central governance was a herculean task made more
impressive by the fact that there was no overwhelming
external threat to motivate a move towards unity. The
Yafizethe simply decided amongst themselves that
their interests were best served by becoming a world
state. Opponents were talked around over the decades,
although there has been some conflict and the
occasional insurgency flares up.

261

