equipment in addition to larger amounts of TL15 goods.
Not surprisingly, it dominates local markets for high-end
goods. However, not every world can make use of such
items – mid-tech equipment is a better investment on
backwater worlds without the infrastructure to support
advanced technology.
The early development of Vincennes was driven by the
Humbolt family until their exile beyond the Imperium
in 628. Progress continued afterward, albeit at a slower
pace, and new dukes followed the existing practice of
concentrating economic and technological progress
on Vincennes rather than uplifting nearby worlds.
This ensured that Vincennes attained an unassailable
position as the most advanced and productive world in
the sector.
The Dukes of Vincennes see themselves as the foremost
nobles of Deneb and have often acted as if they were
sector dukes appointed over other subsector dukes,
rather than equals. Vincennes expends a lot of effort in
attempting to gain control over the systems of Star Lane
and has been known to go to great expense just to win
over a world government or mid-level noble for a time if
it thwarts the plans of others.
The 258th Fleet has always had a difficult relationship
with the subsector dukes. Whilst other great nobles in
the sector seem to think they own the Imperial forces
assigned to their region, Vincennes is the most blatant.
Other dukes apply pressure upon their subsector fleet;
Vincennes issues direct orders, even though this is not

264

permitted, and routinely refers to the 258th as the Fleet
of the Duchy of Vincennes.
In recent years, the duke has backed off a little on this
approach, after a near-mutiny when the 258th Fleet
was ordered to enter Sabine and carry out actions that
would inevitably lead to a confrontation with the 195th
Fleet based there. However, it is only a matter of time
before the Duke of Vincennes tries once more to use the
Imperial Navy as his personal force and another admiral
is put in the position of having to flatly refuse to obey an
illegal order.

HRD

HRD (Humbolt Research Directorate) was settled and
developed to be a scientific community, although
supporting industry was necessary. Association with the
disgraced Humbolt family is unwelcome these days, so
the world goes by its initials but remains a major centre
for scientific progress.
HRD does not have a single remit or unified research
facility. Instead, it is home to a large number of
independent research corporations active in areas
ranging from jump technology to archaeology of stoneage native sophonts on other worlds. Although HRD is
within the Duchy of Vincennes and heavily associated
with it, its research installations will take contracts
from any bidder providing the combination of money
and political expediency is right. Some jobs are simply
too much trouble as they cause friction with Vincennes

