but, for the most part, top-end research is available to
anyone with a large enough stack of Credits.

intended for use in the outback are more combatoriented, including a light grav cavalry detachment.

HRD also hosts academies for the Imperial armed
forces. These mostly handle specialist training for
non-commissioned personnel and command or staff
courses for officers but there are also contingency
planning groups and forward-projection boards who seek
to identify the future needs of the navy and marines in
terms of technology, equipment and doctrine.

Administration of the world is handled by the Imperial
Bureaucracy, which is gradually attempting to transfer
control back to local governance. The process is slow
and painful however, as many of the local leaders
harbour resentment towards the Imperium and its
megacorporations. To the people of Northammon, it is hard
to tell the difference between the two and a significant
proportion of the population worries that the Imperial
occupation is going to simply hand control of the world
over to the megacorporations when the troops pull out.

Much of the work that goes on at HRD is classified
or confidential, as might be expected of top-end
research. A few installations are so secretive that
nobody even knows what general field they work in – it
might be antimatter power generation or identification
of fakes among fine art pieces. Rumours abound,
especially of facilities working with the navy or scouts.
Superweapons, enhanced-jump ships and psionic
teleportation are all thought to be under development
on HRD but those employed to do the work or support it
have nothing to say on the subject.

NORTHAMMON

Northammon is a beautiful but forbidding world,
with extensive mountain ranges and a low average
temperature that results in extensive glaciation. The
dense atmosphere is prone to violent weather patterns
and intense electrical storms, which are exciting to
watch but dangerous to be out in.
The majority of the six million or so inhabitants dwell in
the equatorial regions, mostly in areas sheltered from
prevailing winds by mountain ranges. These regions
produce considerable amounts of agricultural goods,
which for many years provided Northammon’s main
source of income. Disputes between local agricultural
corporations and megacorporate interests, which were
trying to gain a foothold in Northammon, eventually
flared up into open conflict.
Years of conflict between corporate security elements,
mercenary units and local militia were eventually
brought to a halt by Imperial intervention. The world
is currently under military rule as a result, with the
occasional skirmish still occurring in remote areas. The
cities are garrisoned by specialist security battalions
of the Imperial Army, who are skilled in urban combat
as well as paramilitary policing and mediation. Forces

VINCENNES

Vincennes is the most famous world in the sector
and one of the few whose name is known across
the Imperium. This is in part due to its possession
of extremely high technology and partly due to its
connection with the infamous Humbolt family.
Vincennes has a modest amount of useable land above
sea level but its atmospheric taint and turbulence of the
dense atmosphere ensure that only a small proportion
of the population live on land. The vast majority dwell
in undersea cities, most located on what is sometimes
called an undersea continent; a vast area of shallow
water with the occasional mountaintop peeking above
the surface. This region is normally called the Great
Shoal, or just the Shoal.
Settlements located elsewhere on the planet are for the
most part of minor importance, with the exception of
a handful of gravitic cities. These remain high in the
atmosphere, where the pressure is less and effects of
weather milder. Although they can go where they please,
the cities each tend to remain over a specific region of
the planetary surface.
As might be expected, Vincennes is a major exporter of
high-technology goods. Only a small amount of TL16
equipment is available and it is very expensive even
here at its source. TL15 goods are the staple export
of Vincennes and are shipped out in large quantities.
Much of the production process is robotic, from the
seabed mines to packing and shipment centres. Almost
anything can be done remotely, enabling many Vincenzi
to enjoy a lazy lifestyle.

265

