T H E

S P E C I A L I S T

C O L L E C T I O N

TECHNOLOGY OF VINCENNES

3

Travellers visiting Vincennes will have the chance to obtain advanced equipment. Exactly what is on offer at any given time can
vary depending on who has the most success in cutting through all the layers of bureaucracy surrounding exports of TL16 gear.

A03/48956

HIGH-PERFORMANCE GRAV HARNESS

A significant advance on early grav belts, the HPGH or ‘hug-pug’ consists
of a belt and shoulder straps that can be adjusted to fit over bulky clothing
such as a vacc suit or be worn under a normal jacket. Bulk and weight are
only slightly less than a standard grav belt, but a hug-pug offers the user
significant advantages over earlier models. Among them is gravitic support
for the user; early grav belts work well enough but the wearer tends to suffer
a sensation of dangling uncomfortably in the belt with the load concentrated
around the waist. This has been compared to the opposite of wearing an
extremely heavy tool belt and quickly leads to discomfort. The HPGH version
greatly reduces this sensation, reducing operator fatigue.
In addition, an HPGH projects a low-powered field around the user,
deflecting rain and small objects as well as reducing wind resistance. The
unit cannot fly any faster than a standard grav belt – it is still limited to
Medium speed – but flight is much more comfortable and can be sustained
for longer. An HPGH can operate for 24 hours before requiring recharging,
and has an emergency system built in. This will automatically slow a fall and
correct a tumble, unless countermanded by the operator, and will return an
unconscious or incapacitated wearer to a prearranged safe location.

Item

TL Kg Cost

High Performance Grav Harness

16

A03/75674

4

Cr250000

SENSOR SPIKES

Sensor spikes are thin, 6cm long spikes designed to be pushed into any
surface. A one-use battery generates a cutting field at the sharp end,
enabling the spike to be pushed into a rock face or wall without difficulty and
a spike can be thrown into a softer surface. Once emplaced, a set of ultrathin fibre antennae are deployed, gathering a range of data and transmitting
it in bursts or in real-time transmissions to any designated computer. Their
internal power lasts for 48 hours.
Spikes gather optical and thermal data with a tiny camera in the head
and monitor the temperature of the surface the spike is embedded in and
surrounding air, along with chemical composition, radiation levels and
vibrations. A network of spikes can be used to create a perimeter alarm
system or gather data for scientific purposes. Most sensors only gather data
from within 5m of the spike, although vibrations can be sensed at greater
distances depending on intensity. Transmission range is 25m, but a chain of
spikes can relay information over almost any distance.

Item

TL Kg Cost

Sensor Spikes (12 pack)

16

-

Cr50

