Usani borders the Great Rift, although most of its 30
worlds are concentrated in a single large cluster, with no
outliers in the rift itself. The proximity of the rift gives
the subsector what is often termed a ‘hard border’, a
natural frontier that has influenced the development of
the rest of the subsector.
Usani contains Deneb, nominal capital of the sector.
This honour is largely ceremonial as there is no sector
duke and the Duchy of Usani is weak compared to its
rivals. There are some advantages to be had from being
the sector capital however; many businesses feel there
is kudos to be had from operating out of Deneb and
state visits by the Imperial family have to include the
sector capital. As host, the Duke of Usani has the ear of
a visitor – although these occasions are rare enough that
the advantage is offset by the expense of maintaining a
suitable set of accommodations.
The Duchy of Usani also administers Geniishir and Vast
Heavens. Geniishir contains just four star systems, all
easily reached by a jump-2 ship from Deneb. Other
worlds close to these in Atsah are administered by the
Duchy of Atsah but are astrographically remote from
it due to the minor rift lying to coreward-trailing. The
Duchy of Usani exerts some influence over these worlds,
which are part of the local economy to a greater degree
than that of Atsah.
The 154th Fleet, assigned to protect the subsector, has
its bases towards the rimward end. It is primarily active
in the central cluster, with outlying worlds receiving
few patrols. Elements of the fleet are routinely sent into

Geniishir to conduct the usual commerce-protection and
flag-showing duties and occasionally make a foray into
nearby worlds at the rimward end of Atsah. This does
not cause friction with the Duke of Atsah or the Imperial
Navy forces assigned to the subsector; it is a logical
piece of cooperation that relieves the 88th Fleet of this
responsibility. However, the arrangement has at times
become the victim of local politics, to the detriment of
populations and Imperial fleet personnel alike.

DENEB

The Deneb system was named for its red giant primary
rather than its mainworld, although eventually the name of
the mainworld was changed. Deneb is the homeworld of
the Nenlat, an amphibious minor race who had achieved
only the most basic technology when humans arrived.
The Nenlat evolved in low-lying wetlands and most still
occupy these areas. Their traditional villages are capable
of maintaining a TL4 society, with some imported hightechnology items here and there. ‘High technology’ in
the case of the Nenlat means around TL6-8 for the most
part. Higher-tech items require too much support and do
not remain functional for long in the damp conditions
favoured by traditional Nenlat.
Some Nenlat live among the ‘interstellar’ society of
Deneb, which is made up mostly of humans with some
Vargr and other species scattered among them. These
Nenlat are thoroughly Imperial in outlook and consider
themselves superior to ‘traditional’ wetlands Nenlat.

NENLAT
ANIMAL
Nenlat
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS
BEHAVIOUR

HITS
SPEED
21
6m
Melee (natural) 1, Survival 1
Stinger (1D)
Amphibious
Omnivore, Sophont

The Nenlat are semi-aquatic sophonts native to Deneb’s
wetlands and equally at home walking on land or
swimming in shallow water. Their barrel-shaped bodies
are trilaterally near-symmetrical, with three legs, three
arms and three flippers. A head containing the brain and
most sensory organs faces the ‘central’ arm and leg, with
the shorter central arm used for most fine manipulation
tasks and the longer ‘side-rear’ arms better suited to
manoeuvring through weed-cluttered waters.

270

Nenlat have a stinger at the back of the neck, which
can curve up over the head to strike a target gripped by
the Nenlat. Normally, the stinger lies along the back,
although it may twitch about when the Nenlat is agitated.
The stinger’s venom is capable of killing smaller creatures
but is painful rather than life-threatening to humans.

