This manifests itself as contempt and a tendency
towards patronising protectiveness. There is no
real animosity, just a lack of understanding between
the two cultures.
Deneb is a major centre for the Church of Stellar
Divinity, which is hardly surprising since the system’s
primary is one of the most impressive stars in Charted
Space. The local variant of the Church considers that
‘their’ star-god is bigger and better than the others and
that, therefore, they are the chosen people. This does
not go over well with other worshippers, who consider
the Denebian branch of the faith to be a bit too
holier-than-thou.
Religious law is very strict in the cities of Deneb and
enforced with vigour. There is no secular law, other
than regulations for interstellar trade and commerce.
Everything else is governed by religious law, although
most of it is broadly similar to the codes used by
other civilised societies. Visitors can fall foul of the
many peculiar technicalities of Denebian law but most
infractions are dealt with by a token fine (described as
a donation towards good works and actually used for
that purpose in almost all cases) and a requirement to
perform a minor penance. This is almost always a trivial
task accompanied by a sermon on how it relates to the
key elements of Denebian faith. The system is intended
to teach visitors about the world’s religion and perhaps
win converts, although most offworlders find it tiresome.
Deneb has what is thought to be an Ancients site. It
is quite extensive but almost completely ruined and
appears to have been a major city at one time. Most of
the ruin is semi-submerged in the wetlands, although
the land was probably well drained when it was built.
Nenlat children play among the tumbled spires and

broken walls, gaining access despite the best efforts
of a private security firm to let only properly authorised
scientists study the remains.

EXILE

Exile is, as the name suggests, a prison world. It is
infamous as ‘the prison planet that could not hold
Zid Rachele’, although there are claims that Rachele
actually died on Exile and the tale of his escape was
fabricated by his followers.
Being landed on Exile is a life sentence – contrary to
certain vid shows, the Imperium does not send agents
to prison planets looking for criminals whose skills it
needs. For many, the term of incarceration is short. Most
new inmates are given no equipment or outdoor clothing
and are murdered for their shoes before they get their
bearings. Those who survive normally do so by joining
one of the communities of Exile.
Society is rough and harsh but some prisoners have
banded together to create a civilisation of sorts. This has
been a form of rehabilitation for some and since some
sort of law is necessary for stability those who intend to
live a long life have had to create a functioning society
complete with its own justice system. The irony of this
is not lost upon Imperial researchers who observe the
goings-on of the penal colony with interest.
These researchers are safely aboard navy ships watching
the world. The navy takes aggressive action against
any unauthorised vessels that approach, although it is
probable that the occasional smuggler gets through.
Prisoners have escaped from Exile but always with
outside help.
There is a widely held belief that the first prisoners
to be incarcerated on Exile were members of the
Humbolt family and that they have a secret base there.
There is no substance to this; it is nothing more than
a fanciful story that refuses to wither no matter how
much evidence is thrown at it. The Humbolts were
exiled beyond the Imperium, although it may be that
the authorities regret this decision. If they were on Exile
at some point, then perhaps the authorities might have
some idea where they are now.

LIRAN

Church of Stellar Divinity

Liran is a mining colony. The ‘mainworld’ is a dwarf
planet correctly named Liran Central but usually just
called Liran. It lies on the outer fringe of one of the
system’s two planetoid belts; both are extensively mined,
with semi-permanent facilities on some of the larger
bodies and temporary camps or mining ships moving
from one promising strike to another.

271

