Liran has some industry of its own but most of the
produce from its mining industry is shipped out aboard
bulk freighters. These are well protected but corsairs
have been known to prey upon smaller craft using the
port or mining ships in the belts. Liran has another
hazard as well; it is infested with Clambreys. These
creatures are not native to Liran and cannot survive
on its airless surface, although they can hibernate
in vacuum for an extended period. It is likely that
Clambreys got into Liran’s disused mine tunnels after
hitching a ride aboard a starship from another infested
world. Once established, they can be very hard to root
out and Liran’s Clambrey problem is no exception.
The origin of this creature’s name is obscure but is
probably the result of some spacer’s attempt at a play
on words. Clambreys are crustacean-like creatures with
an extremely hard outer skin. They are surprisingly
agile and can clamber (hence the name, possibly) onto
a spacecraft without difficulty, although also without
much in the way of grace or elegance. The typical
Clambrey is about the size of a large dog, with deep-set
eyes and chitinous plates protecting most of its body
rather than a true shell. They have six walking/climbing
legs and two manipulator pincers.

TETZEL

Tetzel is a dry world with a thin, tainted atmosphere and
unattractive to settlers. Although a high-quality starport
was built in orbit to facilitate local trade, Tetzel itself
was never the subject of an organised colonisation and
development programme. A handful of people moved
in and set-up homesteads on the better land, and today
these steaders receive a small subsidy from the duchy
administration that allows them to import and maintain
TL11 equipment. The subsidy is all that prevents the
world from being abandoned, which the subsector duke
does not consider desirable.
Tetzel’s atmospheric taint takes the form of mildly
radioactive dust particles, posing a long-term health
hazard to anyone breathing the world’s air unfiltered.
The origins of this taint are unclear but thought to be
connected with the Ancients site discovered near the
world’s north pole. Like much about Tetzel, this site
is disappointing, consisting only of a few abandoned
structures of great age. There appears to be a lower
level beneath this but its tunnels and chambers have
collapsed. It is conjectured that this was externally
induced by some means other than the obvious
bombardment but no clues to the technology
used have emerged.

CLAMBREY
ANIMAL
Clambrey
SKILLS
ATTACKS
TRAITS
BEHAVIOUR

HITS
SPEED
18
4m
Melee (claws) 1, Recon 1, Survival 1
Claws or Bite (2D)
Armour (+4)
Carnivore, Scavenger

Clambreys breathe oxygen but can function in very low
pressure environments without undue difficulty. Low
oxygen content is also not much of a problem for them;
smoke or atmospheric taints do not seem to interfere
with respiration. If there is no oxygen at all, such as a
space vessel with a Clambrey attached to the hull, it
will go into a coma-like state and hibernate for weeks
or even months. Waking from this state takes time,
during which the Clambrey remains still. Occasionally,
a Clambrey wakes up on the hull of a starship in port at
a new world, drops off and goes in search of something
to eat. Since all Clambreys carry eggs, this can create a
problem even if the creature is hunted down and killed.

272

Clambreys appear to be hermaphroditic and can carry
fertilised eggs in a dormant state for months or years.
Eggs are deposited when sufficient food is available,
and finding a suitable place to nurture the young is
one of the Clambrey’s driving instincts. As a result,
they tend to range widely and investigate whatever
they find. This leads to an unfortunate tendency to
wedge themselves into odd spaces on starship hulls or
wander into unattended cargo bays. Clambreys are not
territorial unless they have eggs laid in the vicinity and
even then they are not hard to drive off. This makes it
quite difficult to tell if a Clambrey has laid eggs; most
Travellers will assume it has and go looking for them.

