The way station is also a major training centre, with Scout
Service recruits receiving orientation and specialist training
packages, and some personnel return later in their careers
as instructors or to retrain for a new role. The installation’s
information-collation facility is one of the main intelligence
hubs in the region behind the claw, receiving a steady
stream of couriers and processing their raw data. Once
analysed, reports are disseminated wherever needed
– routine census and survey data goes into the public
datanet and spreads across the sector but more sensitive
information is made available only to the upper echelons of
the naval command structure and subsector dukes.
High-jump couriers routinely leave Way Station Upuraku
headed trailingwards, ultimately bound for Capital. It is
no secret what data is carried aboard them – everything
known at Upuraku at that moment – but what is
contained within these data packets is highly classified.
Most are routine but occasionally a courier leaves with
word of a war, rebellion or act of treason on the part of
a major noble. It will be many months before a response
reaches Gulf but the courier network ensures that one
will most certainly come.

QEVAR

Qevar is classified as a charismatic dictatorship by the
Imperial Interstellar Scout Service, which is one way
of interpreting its society. Others use terms like ‘weird
mystical police state’ or ‘cult headquarters’.
Some of this weirdness reaches the starport but is
countered by a strong interstellar business community
that will not tolerate interference with the operations
of a major port, which could affect trade across the
subsector and far beyond. The Imperial authorities do
not, as a rule, interfere in the affairs of member worlds
and are willing to let the Qevarians do as they please onplanet so long as there is no interference with free trade.
A commission from the Imperial Ministry of Justice and
the Bureaucracy is maintained at the port, observing the
affairs of the planetary population in case Imperial High
Laws are infringed, although local society seems to be
strange but not illegal.
The government of Qevar comprises officials appointed
by the leader of the world’s religious sect, which believes
that every living thing is connected and enforces a
strictly vegetarian diet for everyone on-planet – indigenous
population and offworlders alike. Most of the world’s
many laws are based around respect for others, free
speech and protection of the environment. In principle,
these are positive concepts, but taken to such extremes
that society manages to be oppressively respectful,
with free speech encouraged but many of the things
someone might say punishable as offences against the
arrangements, as the cult’s core beliefs are called.

The cult’s members are taught to eschew material
possessions and contribute wholeheartedly to whatever
group they are part of. Group marriages are not
uncommon, although there is no official policy on the
subject. Other groupings are social, economic or artistic
in nature. Qevarian society is highly complex as a result,
with a shifting pattern of subgroupings as people move
from one group to another – apparently freely.
Similarly, members are free to leave the cult, although
membership is mandatory for citizenship of Qevar. A
small community of ex-members live at the highport but
most drift across the sector. Few have much that is bad
to say about their time on Qevar; although oppressive to
the outside eye, the cult’s way of life makes sense to its
members and most feel more sadness than resentment
after they leave. However, there are always suspicions
that the inner leadership may be less wholesome than
their beneficent public image indicates.

TUWAYK

Lying just within the area of interest of Trin, Tuwayk is
a backwater world of importance mainly for its starport.
One of the standard jump-2 routes into Trin and thereby
the Spinward Marches, runs through the port, although
it could not really be said to pass through the world
itself. The port acts as a local trade hub but Tuwayk
does not export much and thus benefits little.
The world itself is very dry and extremely hot, with an
indigenous ecosystem hostile to humans and most
imported species. Attempts at ‘soft terraforming’ by
way of introducing algae and similar primitive life that –
hopefully – would eventually supplant the local species
have been decisively defeated by the resilient and
aggressive ecosystem of Tuwayk.
Tuwayk is very much a backwater but within its cities
it is a comfortable one. Harsh conditions outside are
counterpointed by luxurious, if bland, climate-controlled
living areas. There really is no local culture as such;
society is very much Imperial-standard and influenced
mainly by what is fashionable at Trin.
Trin also exerts considerable political and economic
influence over Tuwayk, offering subsidies or reduced
prices on necessary goods in return for continued
loyalty. Normally few strings are attached but the world
government controls the starport and occasionally it is
useful to throw a few obstacles in the way of a rival. At
these times, quietly having control over port operators
can be a useful tool in making a shipping operator or
business group’s activities in the region a little more
costly and frustrating.

275

