The Duchy of Zeng administers the worlds of Macon
(to rimward, in Reft) and Kamlar. It is perhaps the
weakest of the Denebian duchies but in many ways the
most stable. It is not threatened by raids from across
the coreward border and on the fringes of the internal
powerplays of Deneb. Relations with the Duchy of Trin,
on the far side of Gulf, are consistently good. Zeng has
strong trade links running through Gulf and does all it
can to protect them, which sometimes draws resources
the duchy cannot really afford.
Zeng is protected by the 260th Fleet, one of two bearing
that number. The ‘Zeng 260th’ is resentful of the way
the other fleet of that number – stationed in the Antares
sector – calls itself ‘the first 260th’, a claim based upon
the difference in commissioning dates. The first 260th
was to be redesignated and the name assigned to a
new subsector fleet in Deneb but last-minute lobbying
reversed the decision to rename the Antares-based force,
although not before orders were sent to commission a
new 260th in Zeng. The Zeng 260th sometimes refers
to itself as ‘the Only’, in contrast to the Antares force
claim to be the first, as at the time of its creation it was
indeed the only fleet bearing that name. Whilst rather
silly, this dispute is acrimonious and has been the cause
of many a bar fight.
The 260th Fleet is overstrength compared to many other
subsector fleets, with an unusually high proportion of
destroyers. This is partly to allow coverage into nearby
subsectors that have no fleet of their own but there
may be other reasons. The presence of bases along the
Great Rift fringe – and few towards the coreward end
of the subsector – suggests an interest in the rift. The
260th Fleet sometimes receives command of one or
more high-jump rift cruisers designed for deep-space
operations, although these are always handed back after
a few months. It is not clear what these ships are doing
but it may be that the 260th Fleet has responsibility for
deep-space fuel caches. Other, wilder, theories claim it
is charged with monitoring a deep-space installation or
watching for some threat from within the Great Rift.

BALZAC

Balzac is notable mainly as the site of the Battle
of Balzac, where the last of the Humbolts’ capital
ships were brought to action and destroyed. Losses
were heavy on both sides and although some minor
forces did survive, the Humbolts’ power was broken.
The wrecks of several cruisers and destroyers, and
even a dreadnought, can be found on the planetary
surface. Critical systems were removed, along with
all the bodies that could be recovered, but there is

278

still salvage to be had by those willing to risk Imperial
displeasure for desecrating a war grave.
Balzac was the origin world of an amphibious race
dubbed "Crocodiles" by humans for their resemblance to
the Terran creatures. Little is known about these people,
including their name for themselves, as they became
extinct long before the rise of the First Imperium.
Connections have been made with other, vaguely similar,
races across Charted Space but no evidence exists that
the Crocodiles of Balzac ever left their homeworld.
Artefacts indicate a low-tech society that apparently
remained stable for many centuries before suddenly
collapsing. Extinction followed within a few hundred
years, although the reason is unknown. The best
working theory is that the Crocodiles’ population was
reduced below the survivable level by disease,
destroying their civilization, the survivors eventually
dwindling away to nothing.
A long year results in a roughly 150-day monsoon,
followed by around 450 days of very dry weather.
The wet season can completely change a region, with
vegetation appearing at an incredible rate and large
carnivores coming out of hibernation to gorge on the
riotous herbivorous life for a few weeks. Both predators
and prey breed frantically and stock up on food before
returning to their burrows when the rain stops. Within a
few weeks, only twisted, desiccated and apparently dead
vegetation remains.

DAWN

Dawn is a large, dense planet entirely covered in very
deep oceans. Thought to be a failed gas giant, Dawn
has a high surface gravity – 1.7g – which, along with its
dense, oxygen-rich atmosphere, makes the world highly
uncomfortable for unadapted humans. As a result, there
are more people living at the starport or on Dawn’s four
moons than on the mainworld itself.
Dawn is best thought of as a complex multi-body
system than a single planet. The highport is home
to a mostly offworld population, made up of workers,
business owners and their families. Some hail from
the communities of Dawn but most are transients
whose world of citizenship is elsewhere. The port is an
important link in the subsector’s economy and sees a
great deal of traffic. It also functions as a hub for the
planet-and-moons system.
The mainworld itself is populated by around 200,000
people who live in floating cities. Their primary industry
is fishing, as might be expected, along with related

