activities such as harvesting the vast floating mats of
seaweed that drift atop Dawn’s oceans. There is little
resource extraction, other than processing of the ocean
water for dissolved minerals. With no useable land at
all and seabed mining requiring operations at incredible
depths, Dawn’s small industrial sector finds it easier to
import minerals from the moons or outside the system.
The four moons, together with the highport, are home to
around 200,000 people. The moon cities are primarily
resource-extraction and industrial sites, relying on
Dawn’s planetary population for food whilst they produce
necessary goods for use and for export. The system
works well enough that standards of living throughout
the planet-moon system are high, although other than
the spectacular sunrises for which the world is named
there is little reason for visitors to go planetside.
There are exceptions to this rule. Imperial armed forces
sometimes conduct high-gravity training on Dawn and
have experimented with deep-water operations from
time-to-time. Scientific expeditions arrive occasionally,
intent on mapping the seabed or sending robotic probes
to investigate its composition. If Dawn really is a failed
gas giant then its highly dense rocky core might reveal
secrets about the formation of other, successful, gas
giant worlds.

LILAD

Like Dawn, Lilad is a system of bodies rather than a
single planet. The largest moon of a gas giant, Lilad is
the capital of its local moon system. The system has
a total population of around 80 billion, of whom more
than half live on Lilad itself.
Although cold, Lilad is habitable and has a modest
native ecosystem supplemented by a few imported
species. Lilad is able to grow enough food locally to
supply its own population and that of the other moons,
although this leads to a repetitive diet composed mainly
of cereals and yeast extracts. Food is a sought-after
import item, particularly fruit. Even dried and preserved
fruits are popular so long as they are strongly flavoured
and somewhere close to ‘authentic’ in taste.
The Lilad Group, as the moon system is officially
named, does not have a central highport as such. Each
of the moons has its own small port, with a large but

rather basic commercial docking facility orbiting over
Lilad itself. Shuttles and small craft flit back and forth
between these installations, protected by a large force
of fighters and armed small craft, backed up by missilearmed defence bases on the surface of the primary
moons and many other smaller, uninhabited bodies.
The system defence flotilla at Lilad is adept at hiding
among the many moons and ring-system debris and in
the upper atmosphere of the gas giant. The favoured
method of dealing with intruders is a time-on-target
missile salvo from several points, though the tactic
of using missiles to chase a target into a close-range
torpedo ambush is also practiced. The occasional corsair
does try his luck, but the Lilad Group is an unhealthy
place to operate and most smart raiders know it.

PIKHA

Pikha is a high-tech, high-population world, making
it important to the subsector’s economy. This is
unfortunate for other nearby worlds, as Pikha’s extremely
bureaucratic government imposes complex regulations
on all imports, exports and technology transfers. Doing
business at Pikha is necessary but also painfully slow
and needlessly complex.
The Pikha system is extensively colonised, with cities on
several of the terrestrial bodies and in the planetoid belt
too. These are not independent communities; they are
subject to the same central government as any city on
the mainworld. This is not without its problems, as there
have been insurrections in the past and at any given
time at least one city is subject to low-level agitation
and protests against some aspect of governance.
In-system traffic is constant and complex, with large and
small freighters plying between mines and industrial
sites and commercial flights between worlds taken for
granted by most inhabitants. The vulnerability of all
this shipping requires that Pikha maintain a strong
in-system security presence. Its shipyards cannot build
jump-capable vessels but sublight liners and freighters
are a speciality, with a steady stream of orders for patrol
craft as well. Pikha’s system squadron is biased towards
piracy suppression and law enforcement rather than
defence of the mainworld; other than a large planetoidhulled monitor the squadron is entirely made up of small
patrol vessels of 400 tons or less.

279

