and instructed species. It is extensively covered in
water, possessing three great oceans. The dense
atmosphere ensures rainfall is heavy in most regions
and many low-lying areas are chronically waterlogged.
This suits the local wildlife; Kamlar has many
amphibian species of which some are very dangerous.
Away from the wetlands, dense forest predominates in
non-mountainous areas. The forests and high peaks
alike are home to a vast array of flying creatures,
most unique to the world. A few flying species
have moved into the small cities of Kamlar, nesting
atop tall buildings and occasionally posing a
hazard to grav traffic.
The cities are home to almost all of Kamlar’s human
population, with just a few thousand dwelling in outlying
regions. Most are employed in tourism or tourismrelated industries; some visitors want to hunt – which
can be really quite dangerous – whilst others would be
distressed at coming across a successful hunting party.
The solution is to separate these activities, which also
dictates how the local wildlife is controlled. Sporting
reservations are kept clear of dangerous animals as far
as possible, whilst teams capture and move the most
impressive into the hunting reserves.

LORIN ANTUNE

The Lorin Antune system was named in honour of a
wrecked freighter, presumed to have suffered a major
misjump, found in 120. The ship had been in the

284

system since -30 and the crew were dead. They appear
to have survived for many years – the captain’s last
journal entry was in 110, just a decade before Imperial
scouts arrived in the system.
The crew of the Antune managed to land their crippled
ship – more or less – and found themselves among a
low-tech human society subdivided into many warring
states. The knowledge of the crew and some of their
cargo were sufficient to allow one of the states to break
out of the cycle of success then betrayal by its allies
and achieve a measure of stability. Over time this
resulted in a reduction in conflict and technological
progress to TL7. The world is still balkanised but does
not experience anything like the degree of warfare
it previously suffered. However, wars tend to be
more destructive as they are now fought with highertechnology weaponry.
There is a popular legend that Lorin Antune was the
secret last refuge of the Humbolt family and that they
remain powerful there, sending out agents to advance
plans across the sector. Such claims are embroidered
with tales of hidden shipyards building vast superdreadnoughts and other incredible devices. This seems
rather unlikely; if Vincennes itself could not build these
weapons then a fleeing remnant of its ruling class would
be unable to secretly build an even more advanced
technological base. Besides, no sign has ever been
found of Humbolt influence on Lorin Antune.

