INTRODUCTION
Charted Space is home to hundreds of alien species
of all shapes and sizes. The Major Races discovered
jump technology and rose from their home worlds
to form vast interstellar societies. Others found
themselves surrounded by the polities of the Major
Races and joined their societies. Yet more are new
upon the galactic stage and have yet to make their
presence felt to any significant degree.
When playing an alien species, it is tempting to focus
on a couple of points which make them stand out
from humans but this can result in all aliens seeming
one-dimensional. The beauty of playing a member
of an alien species is to dig down into what makes
them different and how those differences affect their
interactions with others.
This book covers four alien species.
The Suerrat are a gregarious human Minor Race who
established a large interstellar republic using only
sublight technology. They were discovered by the Vilani
and forcibly absorbed into the Ziru Sirka, forced to leave
their worlds with their culture almost eradicated to cow
them into submission. A proudly independent species,
the Suerrat remained recalcitrant subjects of the Ziru
Sirka. When word reached them of the approach of a
Terran war fleet, they overthrew their suppressors and
allied themselves with the Terrans. Known for their
advanced knowledge in biological and environmental
sciences, the Suerrat became valuable members of
the Third Imperium. However, they maintained their
individualistic tendencies and frequently sued for
greater independence. A Suerrat rebellion threatened
to disrupt their area of space but they were no match
for the vast fleets of the Imperium. Their uprising was
quashed, and as punishment, the jungles of their
homeworld were destroyed by the Imperial fleet to
constantly remind them of the cost of insurgence.

2

The Za’tachk are members of the Hive Federation
located to rimward and trailing of the Third Imperium.
In many ways their psychology resembles the Hivers
– both are pacifistic and cautious but that is where
the similarities end. Za’tachk have a highly structured
society based on their insect-like trisexual dimorphism.
They are consummate bureaucrats who value, almost
obsessively so, order and organisation. Za’tachk have
become instrumental to the Hiver Federation, lending
their bureaucratic expertise to running the vast polity.
The Gurvin were the second sophont species the
Hivers encountered in their space exploration. They are
a strongly matriarchal species that have developed the
art of commerce to a fine degree. The Gurvin are also
noteworthy as having provided the Hive Federation
with its official language, spoken on every world within
its borders and many beyond. They are the primary
businesspeople in the federation, driving commerce,
trade and supporting the vast economy through their
import and export companies. Shrewd and not above
manipulating the market for their own interest, the best
way to view the Gurvin is ‘let the buyer beware’.
The Tezcat are relative newcomers to the galactic
stage, being somewhat isolated in the Great Rift.
They are a felinoid species known for their violence
and xenophobia brought about by an early struggle
for independence with another sophont species
which evolved on their planet. Using only sublight
craft, they successfully waged war with Droyne on a
neighbouring world. Gaining jump technology from the
Droyne, the Tezcat have spread to a few other worlds
and formed a pocket empire largely controlled by
their Shaper Religion. They have become a valuable
resource to some of their neighbouring polities,
providing zealous mercenaries to those willing to
overlook their xenophobic and racist ways.

