Suerrat are small yet heavy for their size, averaging
160 centimetres in height and 60 kilograms in weight.
They are very broad across the chest and hips and
quite muscular. There is very little height and weight
difference between males and females.

The Suerrat larynx is somewhat higher in the throat
than Solomani and Vilani. This results in a higherpitched voice than would be expected. In many
cases, Suerrat voices are somewhat child-like in
pitch, even amongst males.

Suerrat skin tones range from light brown to blue-black
based on the amount of melanin in the epidermis.
As an adaption to their cooler environment, Suerrat
bodies are covered in silky hair except for the palms
of the hands, soles of the feet, the neck and face. Hair
colour is generally red to orange but less commonly
can be various shades of brown to black. Blonde hair is
exceedingly rare among Suerrat and is considered odd.
The darkness of the hair matches the darkness of the
skin. Despite appearances, Suerrat do not have more
hair than Solomani or Vilani – it is simply much longer
and thicker. Curiously, Suerrat cannot grow facial hair.

Suerrat have proportionally more Type II fast twitch
fibres than slow twitch muscle fibres, making them
stronger than expected from a world with low gravity.
Their distal extremities also have proportionally more
muscle fibres, making their hands and feet more
dexterous on average than either Solomani or Vilani.

Their arms and legs are long and muscular. Both their
hands and feet are long and bear thick skin on the
palms and soles. Suerrat feet are more prehensile than
those of Solomani or Vilani but not as dexterous as
their hands. The big toe on each foot is opposable to
aid in climbing and the nails on both the hands and feet
are broad, thick and naturally black.

Despite the anatomical differences, Suerrat can breed
with many other members of Humaniti.

Suerrat heads are somewhat broad and flat with heavy
brow ridges and a wide flat nose. Their ears stick out
somewhat from the side of their heads. Due to their
star’s low light level, Suerrat retinas are more sensitive
to the visible spectrum. They have big eyes with a
large pupil diameter in relation to the size of the eye
to capture dim light. Eye colour ranges from hazel to
brown and deep brown. Darker iris colours are found
in darker haired individuals. While Suerrat can see
far better in the dark than many other branches of
Humaniti, their eyes are more sensitive to bright lights.
Other Suerrat senses are equivalent to those found
among the Solomani and Vilani.

LIFESPAN
Suerrat gestational period is equal to 41 weeks. Births
tend to be relatively quick and painless, with few
complications thanks to broad hips and pelvic opening.
Single offspring are the norm, with twins being rare and
triplets almost unheard of. Female offspring comprise
50% of births, with males making up 49%. The
remaining 1% are intersex or indeterminate individuals.
New-borns rely entirely on their parents for care, which
is shared as equally as possible between the parents.
Immediately from birth, the young have a strongly
developed Moro instinct, allowing them to cling to their
parent’s fur without assistance. At this stage, children
are either nursed naturally by the mother or given an
artificial milk substitute by bottle.
Young are introduced to solid foods at approximately
six standard months old. As their teeth are only
beginning to emerge, an adult relative will masticate
the food for them and transfer it directly to the mouth.
Suerrat youths are wholly weaned at approximately two
standard years and can chew food independently.
Children are taught to be independent from an early
age, yet there are no expectations regarding when
a child should leave the family home. A child is
considered an adult at 16 standard years of age and

The Suerrat

Internal differences are minor. The skull, despite
being flat, has the same volume as most other
humans due to its broadness. The orbits of the
eyes are prominent and bear a bony sclerotic ring
to support their large eyes. Unlike Solomani, who
have 32 adult teeth, Suerrat have 36 adult teeth and
a broader jaw to accommodate the extra dentition.
Other skeletal differences are minor except to
support the anatomical variances already mentioned.

Suerrat have similar blood groups to those of other
species of Humaniti. The most common groups are A,
B, AB, O and AO, with A being most frequently found,
followed by O, B, AB and finally AO. Rhesus factors are
found approximately equally among the blood groups.

5

