T

legally able to strike out on their own. However, it is
common for adult children to remain living with their
parents or very close by, up to and beyond the point of
taking partners and having children of their own.
Suerrat are in the prime of their life from 19 to
approximately 60 years of age. Their lifespans are
slightly longer than the Solomani but not as long as
Vilani. Suerrat tend to have an average lifespan of
110 standard years.

DIET

Suerrat are omnivores, able to consume plant and
animal products equally easily. Offal and internal
organs are highly prized delicacies. Naturally, individual
preferences abound. Some Suerrat prefer to forgo
animal flesh in favour of plant and fungal substitutes.
Others still prefer to forego all animal products entirely
and subsist on a purely plant-based diet. Suerrat
physiology is geared towards obtaining nutrients from
animal products, so care must be taken when they are
excluded from the diet to ensure adequate nutrition.
Suerrat enjoy a broad range of preparation and
cooking styles. Both plant and animal foods are
equally enjoyed from raw to lightly seared to wholly
cooked. They prefer their food to be lightly seasoned
with few spices or herbs. As a holdover from the Ziru
Sirka, Suerrat enjoy complementing their dishes with
various condiments and sauces.

The Suerrat

Meals usually include several courses beginning
with a light course consisting of pickled vegetables.
A main meal of protein and carbohydrates follows.
Various vegetables, condiments and sauces
accompany each course, which individuals may add
to the main meal as they please. Simple broth is
usually served next to cleanse the palate, with a final
course of sweets following the main meal.
Fluids from various sources are also enjoyed. Water,
either naturally or artificially flavoured is standard.
Rhalonni, a hot drink made from the dried bark of
certain species of rhala tree is frequently consumed
by both children and adults alike. Suerrat enjoy the
consumption of alcohol, particularly rhalaki which
is made from the fermented leaves gathered from
different species of rhala tree.
Suerrat have also adopted several dishes from
Terran cuisines. They particularly enjoy those from
Asian cultures.

6

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SOCIETY
Suerrat have a vast number of rich and varied
cultures. However, these several generalisations
apply almost universally.

SOCIAL

Suerrat, by their very nature, are a highly social species
and enjoy cosmopolitan city life – more so than almost
any other species of Humaniti. Their social nature is
not a learned trait but a fundamental aspect of their
psychology. Suerrat will naturally seek the company
of others, finding equal value in the company of other
sophonts as much as their own species. Even when not
in the company of other sophonts, Suerrat often have
favoured pets nearby to socialise.
Due to their social nature, Suerrat are far more
comfortable living in close contact with others, rarely
seeking time to be alone. Suerrat cities and enclaves
are incredibly crowded compared to those of other
sophonts. However, living in such crowded confines
does not affect Suerrat negatively. Quite the contrary,
they garner great comfort and satisfaction being near
others. The Suerrat lack of understanding of ‘personal
space’ is related to their social nature. They cannot
comprehend the need of other sophonts requiring
space around them which is considered their own.
Suerrat will unconsciously invade others’ personal
space without concern for their comfort. If the subject
of their close contact tries to move away to make some
personal space, Suerrat will move right back into it.
Trying to explain the need for personal space to them
only leads to confusion on the part of the Suerrat.
Another aspect of their Suerrat socialisation is
their tactile nature. Suerrat feel no compunction in
initiating personal contact even with perfect strangers.
Suerrat are likely to touch, hug and hold others
incidentally. When Suerrat are together in a group,
they all tend to touch one another in small ways – as
a form of greeting, to emphasise comments during a
conversation, to attract the attention of another and to
seek comfort and security.
Suerrat seem to not understand a reluctance towards
or desire not to indulge in physical contact. If asked
not to touch another sophont, or if the reaction to
their physical contact is negative, Suerrat generally
react in surprise and disappointment. To their credit,

R

