Suerrat will not force physical contact on those who
do not want it. Still, they will be visibly uncomfortable
in their interactions and many struggle with keeping
their hands to themselves.
Despite their openly affectionate nature, Suerrat do
not kiss each other on the mouth as mouth-to-mouth
contact is reserved for transferring food from parent to
child. They find kissing to be distasteful and somewhat
creepy. Instead of kissing, Suerrat show affection
by placing their foreheads and noses together for
a moment and breathing in deeply; the longer the
contact, the deeper the connection.
Forcing Suerrat into solitary situations is exceedingly
harmful to their mental health. They rapidly become
depressed and despondent. There is nothing worse
for Suerrat to be; on their own, away from the
company of others. Even Suerrat prisons are social
establishments where those convicted of crimes can
still participate in the company of others.

FAMILY

Family is vital to Suerrat. Suerrat can enter a formal
relationship at 16 but few do at such an early age.
Suerrat families are often large and complicated as
relationships are typically plural, with varying male
and female members bonded together. The group
is normally formed by several individuals who wish
to be bonded, with new members entering and
established members leaving the group once formed.
There is no concept of dominance or hierarchy within
the relationship – each member is an equal partner,
regardless of when they joined the group. Decisions
are normally conducted democratically, with each group
member’s input and desires bearing the same weight.
Relationships may be formally recognised through a
ceremony like a marriage or be entered into informally.
Regardless of the formality of the relationship, they all
bear equal weight in the eyes of Suerrat law.

Suerrat have extended the use of sex during social
interactions beyond their own species – where the
involved species are sexually compatible. During the
Ziru Sirka, the Vilani attempted multiple times to curb
what they saw as Suerrat ‘promiscuity’ even to the
point of outlawing sexual relations outside of legally
paired adults. Still, they never succeeded in eradicating
Igushaamusiku. The practice was wholly restored once
the Suerrat were liberated from Vilani oppression.
Today, modern Suerrat understand their practice of
Igushaamusiku is not always welcome among other
species and take no offence at its offer being refused.
Suerrat adore their children. They hold a special place
within Suerrat society and are strongly protected by
law. Parents normally dote on their children, showering
them with love and affection. Children are raised
communally within the group. Each member of the
group is seen as the children’s parents, regardless
of whom they share genetics with. Where technology
allows it, it is common for children to share genetics
with each member of the group’s bonded adults,
making them all literal parents.
Children remain with their parents during their formative
years and are normally born within a family group.
There are no social taboos around single mothers but
there are around raising a child outside of a family
group. If one of the child’s parents is part of a group,
the child will be raised within the group. If not, the child
is raised by the parental group of the mother. In either
case, parents are not excluded from participating in
raising their child unless there is a good reason.

The Suerrat

Relationships may be dissolved by one or more
individuals leaving the group, or the entire group being
dissolved through mutual agreement. In the case of the
dissolution of the entire group, all material belongings
are divided equally among the previous members. If
only one leaves the group, the group’s belongings are
split equally and the departing member takes their
share, so they are not disadvantaged when starting
anew. This process is protected by Suerrat law. Most
groupings frequently see the addition or subtraction of
members but overall they are relatively stable.

There are no social taboos around Suerrat having
intimate interactions outside their relationship group.
Suerrat generally are open-minded about sex – it is
seen as a natural expression of affection, a necessary
aspect of social bonding and a stress outlet. As such,
sex has become integral to many Suerrat interactions
in a ritual called ‘Igushaamusiku’. Suerrat will seal
trade deals with sex, conclude diplomatic discussions
with sex, host formal gatherings where sex is used
to get to know other guests and so on. Sex is always
reciprocal and consensual between those involved
and does not necessarily involve only one couple.
As open as Suerrat are to sexual relations, they
are horrified when physical intimacy is forced upon
another against their will. Such acts draw the harshest
of penalties on Suerrat worlds.

7

