The Suerrat

T

8

Children are educated by their parents during the
first few years of their lives. They are taught the
fundamentals of speech, social etiquette and the
beginnings of independence. As soon as the child
can, small household chores are assigned to them,
becoming more complex as the child grows older. Once
children reach the approximate age of four standard
years, formal education is expected to commence.
Children spend a portion of each day being educated
away from their parents. Primary education lasts from
the ages of four through to 16, when the child is seen
as an adult and able to start their own life. Suerrat
may pursue advanced education which is equivalent
to university or vocational training for between two
and four years before deciding to pursue a career or
continue with their education. Children will normally
remain at home until they form a family group.
Family groups often include several generations
of Suerrat. Elderly Suerrat who cannot care for
themselves are generally looked after by their adult
children unless they require constant medical aid.
Elder Suerrat are afforded a great deal of respect.
Their wisdom and advice are frequently sought after
and often deferred to when consensus between
bonded partners cannot be reached. Elders also play a
significant role in the raising of children.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Suerrat family groups share a single dwelling. Most
dwellings are built in an open plan style, with only a
few large rooms. Families sleep together in a large bed
and often share the bed with family pets. Meals are
prepared and eaten communally. Dwellings are filled
with natural or genetically engineered plants, often
blurring the line between outdoors and indoors.
As Suerrat have virtually no concept of personal
space, their homes are typically built very closely
and crowded together in what others have described
as a claustrophobic nightmare. Families can easily
see into other families’ homes and everyone knows
everyone else’s business. There is little privacy to be
found, which does not bother the Suerrat but other
species can find it stifling.

COOPERATION

Suerrat are a highly cooperative species, as can
be expected for a species as social as they are.
Because of this, the Suerrat cooperate for immediate
benefit and genetic relatedness, as well as signalling
honesty and being part of a group. Furthermore, they
readily teach and assist others, even if it requires
self-sacrifice. Amongst themselves, Suerrat are
never left without help, leading to strong social
connections and cooperative problem-solving.

R

