When dealing with other species, Suerrat expect
a return of their willingness to cooperate. The
reciprocation does not necessarily have to be equal –
Suerrat very much value the effort shown in offering to
cooperate almost as much as the act itself. Suerrat are
always prepared to cooperate with and assist others,
even if it means they are somewhat disadvantaged
or ‘put out’ by said cooperation. Occasions have
occurred where others have tried to take advantage of
the Suerrat’s cooperative nature. Such behaviour has
been rewarded with Suerrat reducing the cooperation
they are willing to participate in with the offending party
to a socially acceptable minimum.
While Suerrat value cooperation over conflict, when
diplomacy and negotiations break down, they will not
hesitate to fight if they or their way of life is threatened.

NON-AGGRESSION
Suerrat are a peaceful species. Their character is a
direct result of their social and cooperative nature.
Suerrat will instinctually look for ways of averting conflict
with a peaceful resolution. Amongst themselves, Suerrat
rarely argue or fight and throughout their history wars
have been exceedingly rare compared to the histories
of other species of Humaniti. Suerrat refrain from
behaving offensively and avoid offending others by
being extremely polite and exhibiting good manners and
etiquette. This relaxes Suerrat and allows them to feel
comfortable with one another but can appear somewhat
amusing to others, as Suerrat repeatedly defer to each
other, apologise for the slightest social gaffe or insist
they have not been offended.

The Suerrat language encodes politeness at its very
core. Suerrat have three main levels of politeness;
one for intimate acquaintances, family and friends; a
separate one for casual acquaintances and strangers;
and another for business, politics and religions. Verb
morphology reflects these levels and some verbs
have special hyper-polite suppletive forms. This is
found with some nouns and interrogative pronouns

This tendency towards politeness should not be
confused with a stuffy or self-important nature. On
the contrary, Suerrat are a fun-loving people who are
likelier to laugh off unintended slights than be offended
by them. Their politeness is not a form of maintaining
social distance, it is a form of inclusion and togetherness
intended to ensure everyone feels comfortable.
When dealing with other species, Suerrat endeavour
to understand their cultural tendencies to avoid
inadvertently insulting them. If an unintended insult
occurs or conflict arises, Suerrat are always the first
to back down and seek to apologise. Negotiation and
diplomacy are potent tools in the hands of Suerrat
but they are not beyond using commercial and
economic means to avoid conflicts.
Suerrats’ peaceful nature has led to some other
species viewing them as a simpering people and has
caused some to try to take advantage of them. Those
species have quickly learned the error of their ways.
When all negotiations have broken down and all
other avenues have been exhausted, Suerrat will not
hesitate to defend themselves with a savagery which
belies their normally peaceful outlook.

NATURE LOVING
Suerrat hold a deep love and respect for the natural
world. Consequently, few Suerrat cities lack extensive
parks and reservations, with some blurring the lines
between city and wilderness.
During their history, many native Ilelish species have
been domesticated by Suerrat both as companions and
to assist in labour. The earliest archaeological records
show the first animal domesticated by prehistoric
Suerrat was a dog-like communal animal which lived in
the same boles and holes which the Suerrat sheltered
in. As Suerrat reached new worlds, new animals were
added to their list of domesticated species. Most
Suerrat have at least one pet and it is not unusual for
Suerrat to have entire menageries. Animal companions
are deeply loved by their Suerrat owners and are part
of the family. They are treated equally in many respects
and often doted upon as if they were beloved children.
When a pet dies, its Suerrat owner is often devastated.
Suerrat businesses and corporations are among the
few institutions allowing bereavement leave for their
employees when they lose a pet.

The Suerrat

When Suerrat find themselves in a potential conflict
with each other, both parties will back away and
apologise for any perceived slights. Both parties will
politely or humorously state the apology is unnecessary
as no slight had occurred. They will then attempt to
address the situation in a manner other species may
view as avoiding the topic. On the contrary, Suerrat will
probe the source of the conflict from various angles
while indirectly addressing the issue to disarm the
conflict with a resolution that benefits both parties.

as well. Suerrat language employs different personal
pronouns for each person according to age, degree
of acquaintance, position in family, social groups,
society and other cultural factors.

9

