T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

NOVELTY
As a result of their love of nature, Suerrat openly and
loudly support the rights of animals. They strongly
oppose the use of animals in scientific research, with
some Suerrat engaging in clandestine operations to
free such unfortunate creatures. They discourage
the imprisonment of animals in zoos and despise the
practice of factory farming. This is not to say Suerrat
do not have zoos or farms. To the contrary, their
zoos are some of the best examples of deep respect
shown to the animal within, using free ranging
enclosures where the animals’ comfort and wellbeing
is the first and highest priority. Zoos are areas of
animal preservation and extinction prevention, where
endangered animals are bred and habituated for
release to increase wild populations.
Suerrat farms are also areas where animal welfare
and comfort are a priority. Food animals are free
range with a minimum of outside interference.
They are slaughtered humanely and with no pain
whatsoever. It can be said Suerrat food animals have
the best lives ever, with only one bad day. Even with
this animal welfare focused farming, some Suerrat
will not eat products from animals, relying instead
on laboratory grown alternatives. In fact, Suerrat
laboratory grown meat and other animal products are
some of the best in Charted Space.

The Suerrat

Suerrat homes are often highly decorated with plants,
supporting a small ecosystem. Suerrat value the
beauty of plants and often indulge in polite competition
with family members and neighbours over who has
the most elaborate and beautiful plants and gardens.
Genetically engineered plants also provide multiple
benefits from cleaning internal air of pollutants,
providing consumables year-round, creating a living
carpet which cleans itself, and so forth.

10

As a result of this closeness to nature, Suerrat
excel at biology and defy the generalisation that
non-Solomani branches of Humaniti are backward
in their biological and medical sciences. Their close
connection to nature also means very little will
upset Suerrat as much as the wanton or careless
destruction of ecosystems. Irresponsible mining
operations and similar industries in the Ilelish Sector
have frequently faced protests and the occasional
aggressive terrorist action by Suerrat extremists.

Suerrat highly value novelty. Their interest and attention
is easily drawn towards the new and exciting. This can
lead some Suerrat to have difficulty focusing on tasks
at hand in favour of something new – the easiest way
to grab a Suerrat’s attention is to show them something
they have not seen before. While this does have some
basis, Suerrat can focus intently on what they are doing
while still noticing and commenting on something novel.
Their attraction to the new and novel has positively
affected their scientific and social advancements.
Being willing to entertain and embrace ideas has led
to advancements which other species who are not
as easily distracted may overlook. The opposite is
also true – pursuing novel ideas has led to delays in
some advancements as scientists and researchers
have ignored established processes in pursuit of
something different.
Due to their love of novelty, Suerrat society is heavily
influenced by the latest trends and ideas. Suerrat will
eagerly pursue the newest fashions, entertainment,
gadgets and trinkets with mercurial speed, not wanting
to be left behind. Suerrat cities often display a chaotic
series of advertisements, bombarding inhabitants with
images and sound of the latest trend.
The natural by-product of this behaviour is the
Suerrat desire to be seen as knowledgeable about
the newest fad and fashions and their pioneering
of new trends. Few things upset Suerrat more than
feeling they are behind the times.

BELIEFS

Suerrat are strong proponents of social equality,
prioritising it above all other philosophies. They
consider all sophonts, regardless of sex, gender,
religion or species, equal in fundamental worth and
moral status. Furthermore, they believe all sophonts
have the same inviolate rights and responsibilities.
This philosophy is exhibited in every aspect of Suerrat
society. Suerrat have no social class structures which
are superior or inferior to other classes. They have no
pronouns which identify gender or sex. No professions
are regarded as the sole province of males or females
or differences in financial remuneration based on
gender or sex. Childrearing is the responsibility of both
parents equally, regardless of gender.

R

