This belief can sometimes conflict with the basic
principles of the Third Imperium. The Imperium’s
ingrained social classes and hierarchy of nobility
directly opposes the Suerrat’s fundamental philosophy
of egalitarianism. Suerrat refuse to use noble titles
between themselves and amongst others with
reluctance. Many openly oppose the Imperial class
and nobility system, arguing for an equal system
where none are seen as superior.
Some Suerrat argue the interests of animals
must also be considered and speciesism should
be rejected. They lobby for the cessation of the
exploitation of animals and aid afforded to suffering
animals. Certain more extreme lobbyists amongst
the Suerrat believe animals cannot speak for
themselves, so priority must be afforded to them.
While Suerrat have a wide and varied number of
spiritual and religious beliefs, one commonly held
idea is of Nokar – what could be loosely defined as
demons. The belief in Nokar was far more prevalent
in the past but many modern Suerrat still hold some
belief in them. Nokar rarely take physical form but
they can appear in various sizes and resemble winged
and tailed lizard-like humanoids. Images resembling
this description have been found all over Ilelish, from
prehistoric tree bole habitations paintings to modern
sculptures. Nokar are said to be able to control the
actions of Suerrat and possess the mentally vulnerable
to do their bidding. Before the modern era, mental
illnesses were attributed to Nokar possession.

Like all sophonts, many Suerrat are religious. Most
faiths are based upon one or more nature deities,
generalised animism or pantheism. In addition, many
native Suerrat believe in a planetary mother deity
and a solar father deity.

Suerrat dislike large, organised religions or those which
have hierarchical structures. They prefer those where
individuals are free to practice as they see fit without
the oversight of a controlling organisation.
Several Terran religions have found favour among the
Suerrat, introduced late in the Interstellar Wars period
and during the Rule of Man. Shintoism and Daoism
in particular are favoured among Suerrat and have a
small but notable proportion of followers.
The faiths detailed here are only a small example of
those followed by Suerrat and are not comprehensive.
Spirit Children: A relatively new religion which can
trace its origins to a more pastoral way of life before
the Suerrat industrial revolution on Ilelish. It shares
many similarities with animism-based faiths found
throughout Charted Space. It is a peaceful religion
which preaches harmony with nature and living in
accordance with the passing of seasons.
Spirit Children believe every object in nature, from the
giant black hole in the centre of the galaxy down to
quarks and electrons, possesses a unique spirit. The
spirits of component atoms combine to become the
spirits of the object or entity they form. They believe
spirits have their own wills and volition, reflecting the
material object they belong to. Therefore, the spirit
of a rock is stationary and patient while the spirit of
a Suerrat is mobile and sentient. Some spirits, such
as those belonging to stars, galaxies and black holes
are god-like in power. Spirit Children view Ilelish as
hosting a maternal spirit-deity and the sun a paternal
spirit-deity. Conversely, the religion teaches that
technology and artificial constructs do not possess
spirits but are possessed by Nokar and are destructive
to the natural spirits of the world.
Believers avoid technology, using it with care and
consideration, restricting its use as much as possible
in modern worlds. The most fervent and extreme
believers will eschew the use of technology completely,
believing the evil Nokar strive to destroy the natural

The Suerrat

Archaeologists hypothesise the Nokar are nothing more
than a racial memory of the Ancients. They assert the
physical description that fits the current understanding
of the Ancients. The stories of Nokar powers of control
and possession, they argue, are at most dim memories
of having served the Ancients in the distant past,
passed down and distorted through the generations.
Most Suerrat accept the current interpretation of Nokar
but some still strongly believe in their existence and the
impacts they can have.

Suerrat are open minded about their faiths and it is not
unusual for them to change religions frequently when
new ones are presented. This has led Suerrat faith to
be shifting and mercurial in nature. Very few faiths can
boast a continuous history of centuries – many religions
have died only to be revived later as a belief system
which is new and different.

11

