T

world in favour of an artificial one. They often turn
their backs on modern society in favour of creating
communes of like-minded individuals who live life as
before the introduction of advanced technology, relying
primarily on animal and human power.
The religion has no central structure – each group
stands independently but several groups often gather
for larger rituals. Individuals within these groups may
be seen as more knowledgeable and enlightened
than others. Leaders within the group perform the
functions of the priesthood and perform initiations of
new members and clergy.
The religion celebrates four holy days yearly,
equating to the solstices and equinoxes on Ilelish.
Worshippers on other worlds use those world’s
equinoxes, if they have them, or revert to using those
of Ilelish. The celebrations normally include rituals
noting the passage of the last orbital phase into the
new one, feasts and games.

The Suerrat

Church of the Stellar Truth: This disavowed
denomination of the Church of the Stellar Divinity is
viewed more as a cult than a religion. Its origins can
be found in Vilani faiths with influence drawn from the
Solomani Hypothesis. Its popularity has varied widely,
almost disappearing at some points in time only to
reappear, sometimes decades later, with newfound
enthusiasm and dedication.

12

Proponents of the Church of Stellar Truth believe
each star is a deity and the Ancients are their divine
servants. The Ancients were sent forth by the stars to
seed life throughout the universe, focusing heavily on
spreading Humaniti to as many worlds as possible.
Proponents profess the Ancients are still present and
continue to spread human species through space.
Their doctrine states the Ancients are still visiting the
Suerrat and their genetic material is being used to
create a superior new human species. Some believers
even report they have been abducted by Ancients,
taken aboard their spacecraft and medically examined.
Others further say they have been personally involved
in the Ancients’ breeding program. Such individuals
can achieve celebrity-like status within the cult,
drawing followers to them and forming new groups.
Furthermore, they believe government authorities are
fully aware of the Ancients and are complicit in their
activities whilst denying their existence.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Those who profess to have encountered the Ancients
describe them as tall, thin grey or white humanoids
with large, elongated heads, large black eyes, no
nose and thin lipless mouths. Experts have noted the
similarity in this description with beings described in
Terran mythology. The Church of the Stellar Truth
profess this is further evidence of Ancient activity in
the past and present.
The faith is relatively small but widely scattered. It
has no central authority, with each group essentially
operating independently with potentially differing
beliefs. Nevertheless, annual events are common,
where believers from different groups come together
to discuss their faith, hear reports of abductions and
hold services where they attempt to commune with
the Ancients. In addition, individuals and groups
spread their faith through books and presentations,
making themselves available to be interviewed to
pass on their beliefs.
The faithful can be quite fervent in their beliefs, often
pointing to completely unrelated events as proof of
Ancient activity. Most Suerrat view the Church of the
Stellar Truth as a silly fad, little better than the raving of
delusional conspiracy theorists. Those who follow this
faith tend to have almost fanatical beliefs.
Temple of the All-Mother: Also known as Shidhism,
this religion originates in the distant past, with some
proponents claiming it can be traced back to Suerrat
prehistory. However, most modern experts deny such
claims, stating it is highly unfeasible that a prehistoric
religion could survive unbroken into the current era.
Shidhism is another faith based on the concept
of animism. Believers profess all living organisms
possess a spirit and all spirits are part of Shidha, a
universal mother deity. The faithful believe the Shidha
spirit slumbers and through creating a network of
mythology and experience, they will provide a stimulus
to reawaken her. An individual who has an awakened
Shidha spirit is believed to be more in tune with both
the deity and the universe and acts as an inspiration
and guide to those who have yet to awaken the spirit.
As more individual spirits are awakened, the Shidha
spirit grows in power and effect within the universe.
Reawakening the Shidha spirit is accomplished through
meditation and prayer, creating mindfulness within
the individual and cutting attachment to materialism.
Lay worship is the norm amongst most followers but

R

