particularly pious individuals may become monks in one
of the many All-Mother temples built to accommodate
them. The temples are also the location of public rituals
and teachings the laity can attend.
The Temple of the All-Mother has a significant following
throughout the Suerrat Republic, with followers also
found among Suerrat throughout Charted Space. The
faith even has followers among other sophont species
but nothing approaching the numbers found among
the Suerrat. While the faith has no single authority, the
doctrines between individual groups have remarkable
conformity. A few breakaway groups hold slightly
differing philosophies but even these are accepted
within the greater congregation.
The faithful also believe in the reincarnation of the
mother spirit. Reincarnation progresses from the
lowest of plants to animals and finally into sophonts.
Each reincarnation increases the opportunities for
the individual to awaken the spirit. The closer a spirit
comes to awakening, the further up the progression
the reincarnated spirit will be. Conversely, losing
connection with the mother spirit leads to reincarnation
lower down on the progression. An individual can
progress up and down the reincarnation cycle many
times before achieving awakening. Once they have
awakened the mother spirit, they are free from the
reincarnation cycle and merge with Shidha upon death.
Believers are taught it is their responsibility to assist
those unable to awaken the spirit themselves.
Meditation and prayer in the company of plants and
animals are believed to provide this assistance.
Some All-Mother temples focus solely on assisting
plants and animals in awakening their mother spirit,
foregoing all interactions with the outside world as
they practice their faith.

The Inward Eye: The Inward Eye is a cult rapidly
attracting followers among the Suerrat. The religion
espouses that the only way the divine can truly be
experienced is by using psychoactive substances.
The structure of the faith is very loose, without
any established priesthood. A single charismatic
personality, a Suerrat named Kaisokiituar, leads

At first, the cult was seen as a relatively harmless fad,
likely to fade away given a little time. Unfortunately, the
opposite has occurred. More alarmingly, Kaisokiituar
has started openly criticising the Third Imperium and
the Emperor, encouraging her followers to stand
against what she calls an ‘impersonal autocrat and
his privileged elite’. She has openly made calls to
oppose Imperial rule and strive for a more egalitarian
regime which does not place the interests of unworthy
figureheads above those of the populace.
Imperial and Republic authorities are watching the
Inward Eye very closely, ready to act at the first
sign of open rebellion. Unfortunately, the faith has
gathered some well-known and famous Suerrat
personalities who have used their popularity to help
spread the Inward Eye’s teachings.

The Suerrat

Shidhism bears a solid resemblance to the religion of
Buddhism which originated on Terra. Some use this
similarity as evidence of the universality of their faith,
claiming Buddhism is a facet of Shidhism. Naturally, this
belief has many opponents and is not widely accepted.

the cult. Her background is very much shrouded in
mystery. She became prominent in 1072 on Imsaggir
(Ilelish sector 2216) and has since gathered a
significant following. Devoted followers have carried
the faith to surrounding worlds, finding adherents
among Suerrat and other sophonts alike.

13

