T

GOVERNMENT
Suerrat boast a wide variety of governments.
However, some types are preferred over others.
Governments which emphasise cooperation and input
by the populace are favoured. Democracies, feudal
technocracies and civil service bureaucracies are all
quite common. However, the same ethic of collaboration
and social harmony which produces democracies has
led to government by charismatic dictatorships and
oligarchies, as well as several religious autocracies.
One concept of governance found on all
predominately Suerrat worlds is social and economic
egalitarianism. This is most often displayed by public
ownership of city and world infrastructure through
the government. Any surplus product or profit made
by infrastructural organisations is placed back into
the public purse, thereby benefitting society rather
than a few elite business owners. This concept is
often accompanied by the government providing all
citizens with a living basic universal income which is
tax-free and unconditional. This practice ensures no
citizen is ever forced to live in poverty and limitations
on individual personal growth and improvement
imposed by poverty are eradicated.

The Suerrat

Suerrat worlds generally provide free education
through a publicly owned education system to all
citizens, regardless of the level of education sought.
Citizens of Suerrat worlds can pass through basic to
advanced and even specialised education without
any financial burden or restriction. Individuals who
desire to become professional students are not
discouraged from such endeavours.

14

All Suerrat citizens have access to a universal
health system covering all their medical, dental and
psychological needs. Furthermore, all medical services
are publicly owned and there are no private hospitals or
doctors who charge exorbitant fees for their services.
Therefore, medical services are equally accessible to
everyone regardless of financial situation. Thanks to
this service, the citizens on Suerrat worlds are often
some of the healthiest in Charted space.
On many Suerrat worlds, ‘private’ businesses and
corporations are also publicly owned similarly to
infrastructure. On other worlds, private companies
are owned by their employees equally, providing them

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

with an equal say in business decisions and allowing
them to share in the successes and failures of the
business. Joint ownership in this fashion encourages
a remarkable dedication and loyalty towards the
business as employees personally profit from their
business’s success as opposed to an elite owner or
an unknown group of shareholders.
Suerrat value public input into their governance. It
is not unusual for Suerrat worlds to be governed by
some form of participatory democracy regardless of
their overall government, where the whole populace
votes on all decisions. On some worlds, this form of
governance extends to all citizens having the ability to
table their own policies and legislation and the freedom
to speak publicly to support their submission. Naturally,
this level of participation in a large population could
prove troublesome or even impossible without access
to TL7 or better information technology. Conversely,
with small populations located within proximity,
participation in this form of democracy is relatively
easy regardless of the Tech Level.

LAW

There is no universal Suerrat legal system. Similarly,
the laws on individual planets can vary considerably
but there are several legal similarities among them.
The Suerrat Republic essentially operates under the
laws of the Third Imperium. Due to the peculiarities of
the Republic Charter, all the worlds within the Suerrat
Cultural Zone may agree on individual laws being in
effect on every member planet if they desire.
The Suerrat find discrimination particularly distasteful
and it is not unusual to find it illegal on predominately
Suerrat worlds. Punishments normally involve fines
and restitutions but on worlds with particularly high
Law Levels, discrimination can bring long periods of
incarceration for perpetrators.
Violent crimes such as assault, battery, abduction,
manslaughter and murder are not tolerated by
Suerrat law in any way. Suerrat highly value life
and the bodily rights of individuals. Therefore, such
crimes are viewed with significant disgust by Suerrat.
The punishment for such crimes is extremely
harsh by Suerrat standards and always includes
incarceration for substantial periods.

R

