Crimes against the physical property of others,
such as burglary, embezzlement and fraud are rare
among Suerrat – in a society which encourages
financial equality and where everyone is afforded the
ability to live comfortably. Still, property crimes are
viewed dimly by Suerrat and laws regarding such
crimes are ingrained within the legal system. Such
crimes also draw punishments of incarceration but
the length of time is significantly less than those
imposed over violent crimes.
Commercial law favours the consumer over the
corporation. Contrary to many legal systems,
corporations are not seen as individuals and any
criminal actions a corporation takes lie on the individual
or group who authorised or performed them.
Crimes against the environment draw some of the
harshest punishments. Crimes such as industrial
pollution, sabotage, vandalism and destruction
are never tolerated. On some Suerrat worlds,
environmental crimes can draw the death penalty.
Some Suerrat worlds are unusual in that they afford
the same legal protections to animals as they do to
sophonts. On such worlds, crimes against animals are
treated the same as crimes against sophonts and draw
the same severity of punishment.

Criminals who are violent against other prisoners
pose an interesting problem for Suerrat. Their
psychological need to be close to one another makes
solitary confinement impractical and a further danger
to the inmates’ mental health. Such cases are usually
addressed using medication, psychiatric assistance
and intense rehabilitation.

Suerrat fashion tends to be simple. Most clothing
consists of a simple tunic that leaves bare arms and
legs. Tunics are most often form-fitting with few loose
extremities which can be caught on tree branches.
They prefer natural fibres to artificial ones. Their
clothing tends to be brightly coloured and they enjoy
mixing and matching colours in their ensembles,
often producing a discordant clash of jarring hues
and shades. It must be said Vargr find Suerrat use of
colour highly favourable.
In hot weather, Suerrat are happy to forego clothing
altogether – their body hair is long enough to cover
areas other species may find ‘embarrassing’.
However, they will include sleeves and long trousers
to their usual tunic when cold.
Suerrat prefer to go barefoot when able. If they
must wear shoes, they tend to be made of soft and
comfortable materials and fashioned in the likeness
of mittens, leaving the opposable toe/thumb free
for gripping purposes. Some footwear styles are
fashioned after gloves, allowing all the toes to be free
for a finer level of manipulation.
While Suerrat love to follow fashion trends, they tend
to find most clothing worn by other human species
too restrictive or fussy for unrestricted movement.
They will eagerly adapt new fashions to suit their
preferences, however.
Suerrat do not have a great fondness for jewellery.
They find it to be a snag risk, breaking and becoming
lost or endangering the owner. Therefore, if any
jewellery is worn, it is often simple and close to the
skin, such as stud earrings. Rings comprising simple
bands are sometimes worn on both the fingers and
toes. Jewellery is generally made of precious metals or
natural substances such as horn, bone or stone.
Interestingly, precious gems and jewels hold an
unusual position in Suerrat fashion. Instead of being
worn as part of a piece of jewellery, they are worn
inset into the teeth. A small cavity is created in the
front of the tooth, into which a small cut jewel is
placed and set with cement which has healing and
antibacterial properties. The adhesive prevents the
tooth and gum from becoming infected or necrotic.
Suerrat lovers often give each other such gems as a
sign of affection or an indication of their commitment
to their relationship. It is not unusual for Suerrat to
have several teeth modified in this way.

The Suerrat

Incarceration is somewhat relaxed among the Suerrat.
Prisoners have access to entertainment, education
and employment if they wish. They retain all their
rights, including the right to vote. The only right which
is denied is the freedom of movement. Suerrat prisons
are strongly focused on rehabilitation over punishment.
Prisoners are allowed to interact with each other
openly except where individuals have proven to be a
risk to others. Day release programs are available to
those who pose minor risk, enabling them to study or
work outside of the prison and return in the evenings.
Prisoners afforded such freedoms are fitted with a
tracking system to be easily located if they fail to return.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE

15

