T

Suerrat enjoy styling their hair, both on their heads
and bodies. The most common form of styling
is hair dyeing. Some Suerrat even dye their hair
two or more different – although not necessarily
complimentary – colours. Where the technology
is available, many Suerrat are not opposed to
undergoing genetic editing to obtain the hair colour
they desire, sometimes making colour changes
frequently. This is often found among younger
Suerrat but enough older Suerrat enjoy this form of
self-expression too. Other common forms of styling
include braiding, beading and the addition of small
pieces of decoration such as small shells, feathers,
polished animal bone, horns, leaves and flowers.
Both male and female Suerrat enjoy using makeup for
self-expression and art. Makeup is applied in broad
strokes comprised primarily of geometrical designs,
which tend to be bold and simple. The eyes and the
cheeks are most often decorated to enhance their
features and draw attention to them. Makeup comes
in many colours. Younger Suerrat prefer bright, vibrant
colours while older Suerrat tend to restrict themselves to
more muted earthy tones but no traditions guide this.

The Suerrat

Suerrat are a creative people and they enjoy many
forms of art. As they are naturally drawn to the new and
exciting, they constantly experiment with new art forms
and rediscover old ones. Innovative art is very well
received by Suerrat but their interest can quickly shift
when the next new thing comes along. Suerrat prefer
communal art which can be shared and participated in
as a group rather than individually.

16

Visual arts, such as paintings and drawings are
normally created by a group of artists who add their
own vision to the piece. As can be expected, such
communal compositions can be somewhat chaotic in
nature. Suerrat prefer abstract art over realistic art and
most pieces will feature a single unifying style. Painting
and drawings are frequently a riot of colour and texture.
Sculpture is likewise often abstract in nature and
created by a group. Sculptures frequently attempt to
capture an emotion, or series of emotions. Sculptures
are rarely static but include a multitude of moving
parts in what is called kinetic art. The movement can
be uniform and predictable, or random and erratic.
Suerrat prefer to sculpt using natural materials, such
as wood, stone, metal and paper.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The performing arts are an interesting art form among
Suerrat. Whereas in other cultures, where artists
perform for a non-participatory audience, Suerrat
performing arts not only expects but welcomes
audience participation. Performances are dynamic and
exciting, as no one knows which direction it will take.
Skilled performers can guide audience participation
towards a desired outcome. Unlike the visual arts,
some performing arts are enacted by individuals,
along with the audience providing communal input.
Performances are routinely live – Suerrat gain no real
enjoyment from participating in a recording.
With their advanced understanding of genetics,
Suerrat are the leading creators of genetic art – the
act of manipulating lifeforms as a form of artistic
expression. This can go beyond the creation of exotic
pets and plants but due to their respect for life, Suerrat
never allow their genetic manipulation to impact
the quality of life of any animal. Instead, living art is
designed with minimal brain function for continued life,
with no ability to sense pain, fear or any other emotion.
Genetic art can be truly bizarre. Some sophonts find it
horrifying and macabre. Most Suerrat quickly explain
the life form has no sensations and is only alive in
the same sense as a cloned organ. Some Suerrat
extremists strongly oppose the creation of genetic art,
citing it completely disregards the organisms’ rights as
a living being and no life should be created purely for
the enjoyment or entertainment of another. Regardless
of the caveats, some worlds have criminalised the
creation and ownership of genetic art.
The natural world heavily influences Suerrat
architecture. Suerrat originally inhabited the
interconnected hollows formed within the giant Rhala
trees native to Ilelish. These hollows served as
adequate habitats for most of the species’ history and
many Suerrat continue to live within them both on Ilelish
and the worlds where the trees have been established.
At first, Suerrat did not modify the hollows but quickly
expanded them while taking great care not to kill the
tree. External structures constructed primarily from
wood – such as balconies, platforms, exterior rooms
and bridges were soon added in the branches of the
trees. As technology advanced and gravitic technology
became available, floating platforms were built beside
the trees. Modern Suerrat cities continue incorporating
the rhala trees into their settlements, creating an
unusual but lovely blend of buildings and trees.

R

