Suerrat architecture tends towards squat construction
which blends easily into the forest. Buildings are
created with large open internal spaces where groups
of Suerrat can easily gather. Construction materials
include a combination of manufactured and natural
materials. Most buildings have a somewhat rustic feel,
even when made from advanced materials. Architecture
features circular structures which wrap around the
trunks of the Rhala trees. Windows, skylights and
doorways are also circular. Doorways tend to be large
to allow several Suerrat to use them simultaneously.
Walkways and bridges are wide and allow pedestrians
to traverse the city without travelling on the ground.

Transport is relegated to the lower levels of Suerrat
cities. Where gravitics are unavailable, ground
vehicles prevail. Roads are built intertwining between
the trees and below foot traffic. Road construction

Due to their love of nature, Suerrat prefer to terraform
and settle airless and otherwise uninhabitable worlds,
living in great domed cities until the planet has been
made suitably habitable. Even while living in these
domed cities, Suerrat will include arrays of lush wild
environments so as not to be separated from nature.
Where domes are impractical or not possible, Suerrat
ensure their settlements include many plants to soften
the harsh lines of artificial architecture and give the
settlement as natural an appearance as possible.

RECREATION

Suerrat enjoy a wide range of recreational activities,
most being communal. Sports are particularly enjoyed,
especially all sorts of ball sports. They love gravball and
several highly successful players have been recruited
into Imperial leagues from among the Suerrat. Another
ball sport they enjoy is a traditional sport loosely
translated as tree ball.

The Suerrat

Suerrat cities are very crowded. Rhala trees naturally
grow closely together and artificial structures fill many
of the spaces between the trees. Suerrat populations
are at the density where other species find the mental
health of the inhabitants deteriorates and violent crimes
become commonplace. This does not occur among
Suerrat; in fact, the opposite is true – Suerrat who
cannot live in proximity commonly see increases in
violent crimes and a decline in mental health.

always considers the environment, with great care
taken to disturb it as little as possible. Where gravitic
technology is readily available, vehicular traffic is still
relegated to below the city’s buildings but roads are
no longer used, and those areas are rehabilitated
back to the natural state of the forest.

17

