T

The sport is played with three opposing teams
comprising seven players each – a goalkeeper, two
offensive players and four defensive players. The
playing field is a three-dimensional triangle. Originally,
the field was established among a group of rhala
trees with branches forming an obstacle course but
modern games use artificial fields. Three goal hoops
or holes are located high up at each corner of the
field. The object of the game is to pass a ball through
your team’s goal while preventing the other teams
from scoring goals. Points are attributed based on the
difficulty and distance of the shot which achieved the
goal. More difficult and distant shots score more points.
Only offensive players may handle the ball. Defensive
players work together to protect the offensive player
from the opposing players trying to obtain the ball. The
ball may be handled by either the hands or feet and
may be thrown, kicked, chest- or head butted. Tree ball
is a strictly no contact sport.

The Suerrat

Tree ball draws enormous crowds of supporters who
animatedly barrack for their group, hurling insults
and jibes at the opposing teams. The sport has even
garnered followers among other species. The sport is
popular in the Ilelish subsector and those neighbouring
it but is played wherever Suerrat have settled.

18

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Performing arts are always a popular pastime where
the audience participates in the performance. The
works of the ancient Terran playwright Shakespeare
have a huge following among the Suerrat, who
seem to enjoy being scandalised by the violence
the plays feature. Those familiar with the works find
little similarity between the original plays and those
performed by Suerrat actors as the play moves in
unexpected areas with the audience’s input.
As Suerrat have a great love of pets, many recreational
activities involve them. Taking pets for walks or other
forms of exercise is common. Allowing pets to socialise
with others of their kind also allows owners to socialise.
Attending pet training courses is highly popular and
animal racing is widespread and draws huge crowds.
As the Suerrat have a high regard for life, the safety
of the racing animals is of the highest importance.
Such animals are also loved pets – there are no large
stables where animals are inhumanely kept and forced
to breed in the search of a champion. Interestingly,
Suerrat race animals purely for the enjoyment of it and
do not gamble on the results.
Suerrat love to dance, and nightclubs and parties are
a widely enjoyed recreation, especially among younger
members of society. Nightclubs tend to be relatively
small but dance parties can be huge affairs hosted
within warehouses, stadiums or even in the open air.
No matter the venue, they are always crowded with
multi-coloured rapidly flashing lights, deafeningly loud
music and multiple dance floors. Live performances
are the norm, with either live bands, music mixers or
a combination. Such gatherings can last for days at a
time. Suerrat prefer music which is electronic and has
a very pronounced bass. Their music is often described
as a mad blend of dubstep, tribal and pop.
Recreational substance use is enjoyed by some
Suerrat. They indulge consumption in groups to share
the experience, especially when attending nightclubs
and dance parties. However, acceptable substances
only have a slight hallucinogenic effect and only nonaddictive substances are legal.

BUSINESS

Suerrat do not possess any megacorporations. Instead,
they have several large corporations which extend
beyond the borders of the Suerrat Republic and into the
sectors surrounding it which employ other species in
addition to Suerrat. Almost all Suerrat businesses are
jointly owned by all their employees equally. Employees

R

