have a say in how the business operates and share
equally in all profits and losses incurred. This business
model has been proven to increase employee morale
and shows a noticeable increase in productivity. Each
employee directly affects the company’s fortunes and
draws financial benefit from its success.
Suerrat love of nature, as well as a love of novelty,
provides many trade opportunities. Many Suerrat
businesses within and outside the Suerrat Republic
specialise in genetic engineering. Exotic or genetically
engineered pets, especially reasonably bright ones,
are quite popular. New and unusual pets are always
in demand. Exotic plants for the home or garden are
also popular trade items. Another area which sees
significant input from Suerrat genegineering is the
production of biological symbiotes for medical and
lifestyle purposes. Symbiotes are bred for various
reasons such as enabling individuals to live comfortably
in tainted or otherwise uncomfortable environments,
producing individuals with abilities they do not naturally
possess and providing medical assistance such as
manufacturing pharmaceuticals.
While Suerrat have a reduced interest in terraforming
worlds for their use, their experience in this field
has enabled many Suerrat businesses to provide
the service to others. Most companies specialise
in a particular style of terraforming, such as using
genetically modified life forms, technology assisted
alterations and even orbital bombardment to introduce
necessary elements into an environment.
Suerrat astronomy, mathematics, environmental and
genetic sciences are considered some of the finest and
most advanced within the Third Imperium. Scientists
specialising in such fields can command very lucrative
wages for their services outside the Republic. Suerrat
universities offer highly desirable graduate and
postgraduate qualifications in these fields for those
beyond the Republic who can afford them.

Shume Biogenetics: A genetic engineering
corporation, Shume Biogenetics is well known both
in and outside the Suerrat Cultural Region. All of
the corporation’s laboratories are located within the
boundaries of the cultural region but it has outlets
across a broad area of the Third Imperium and its
products can be found almost anywhere. Shume
Biogenetics specialises in producing and engineering
biological symbionts with a broad range of utilities. The

Bikirru Planetary Engineering: A specialist
corporation, Bikirru Planetary Engineering designs and
implements microbes to assist in terraforming specific
worlds. Microbes are individually tailored for the planet
they are destined for to transform its unique properties
into a world suitable for client needs. The microbes are
designed to self-replicate a limited number of times
before expiring. The genetic material in the microbes
contains corporate identification and will self-destruct
if unauthorised attempts at replicating them are
made. The corporation has had notable success from
broad-scale terraforming of entire planets to microengineering projects designed to repair ecosystems
from artificially imposed environmental damage.
Dozite-Godu Designer Pets and Companions: A
young and upcoming company, Dozite-Godu Pets
and Companions are in the business of genetically
engineering unique animal companions. Most lifeforms
are designed from the ground up based on client briefs.
Dozite-Godu have an elite clientele, only those who
can meet the exorbitant fees the company charges
can afford one of their products. Their engineered
products can be found among the rich and famous
and several Imperial nobles. Their products draw a
significant amount of attention for their owners. DoziteGodu ensure their products are unable to reproduce
and guarantee no two of their products are the same.
The genetic coding of all products are closely guarded
secrets and individual cells are programmed to selfdestruct if interfered with in an unauthorised manner.
Dozite-Godu has been the subject of several attempts
of industrial sabotage to obtain their secrets but so
far all such attempts have failed. A few Dozite-Godu
products have been the subject of ‘malfunctions’ –
aggressiveness, not bonding well with their owner
and even an attack which cost the owner their life.
The company’s strong public relations department
works exceptionally well in suppressing such ‘events’
before they become too widely known. Rumours have
surfaced recently over Dozite-Godu manufacturing
artificial sophont companions but the company has
rigorously denied all such rumours.

The Suerrat

Some major Suerrat corporations include:

most common symbionts the company manufactures
assist sophonts in living within tainted atmospheres.
Symbionts are designed to filter out a single specific
trait and draw nutrition from the host organism directly.
These manufactured organisms have found significant
favour among those who wish to live within a tainted
atmosphere without artificial support but are unwilling to
undergo DNA resequencing.

19

