T

THE MILITARY
The Suerrat no longer have a single military
organisation which protects its interests. In the past,
during both the First and Second Suerrat Republics,
they possessed both polity-wide naval and army
presences. However, these were dispersed first
when the Ziru Sirka conquered the Suerrat during the
Consolidation Wars and then voluntarily disbanded
when the Suerrat joined the Third Imperium during the
Ilelish Pacification Campaign.
A ramshackle unified naval and army force was
formed during the Ilelish Revolt but these organisations
had more in common with terrorist groups than
any formal military. Most forces were defeated and
captured when the Third Imperium stopped the revolt.
A small number escaped and continued to harass
the Imperium for a short period after the uprising
concluded but the public Imperial stance is that they
were steadily hunted down and eradicated.
Individual Suerrat worlds are permitted their own
military organisations just as any other world is within
the Third Imperium. These may include jump capable
vessels. Due to the disruption caused by the Ilelish
Revolution, Suerrat worlds are closely watched by
Imperial authorities for signs of military power increases
which may indicate the potential for another revolt.

The Suerrat

LANGUAGE

20

Suerrat speak their own language, which is used as
frequently as Galanglic within the Suerrat Cultural
Region. The language, known as Na’ans, appears
at first glance to be quite primitive but is highly
functional. Na’ans lends itself to the expression of
mathematics such as astrophysics and statistics. It
has been described as having a logical base that
is largely constructed or artificial, a conclusion that
is easily proven false. Na’ans’ linguistic history can
be traced back to the pre-space travel Ilelish and
was preserved during the Long Night and into the
modern day. Some linguistic drift did occur during the
Long Night. Many of the resulting differences were
absorbed into the greater language once interstellar
travel became commonplace again.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

To the outsider, the language is rather harsh,
consisting of noises that sound like grunts, coughs
and clicks. It uses tone to convey further meaning
to words and phrases, making it difficult for those
unused to tonal languages to follow.
Suerrat have a single name composed of two parts.
The first is analogous to a given name whilst the
latter is analogous to a family name. The two parts
of the name are used together as a whole. Given
names are commonly composed of two syllables and
are descriptive in nature, calling to mind aspects or
characteristics which the parents wish to be adopted
by their child. There is no difference in naming
protocols based on the gender of the individual.
Example names are Bakur, Hukmotud, Gakak,
Oakeden or Pakun. When translated into Galanglic,
examples of such names are Brave Warrior, Holy
Flower, Dawn Crescent and Mindful Spirit.
The family name is traditionally matrilineal, whereby
children are given their birth mother’s family name
when they are born, followed by a descriptor. Like
the first name, this normally consists of one or two
syllables and originates in the location or area from
which the family was from. Examples include Earit,
Iitakul, Tuerak and Kotarol.
This will give a name ranging from four to eight
syllables long, such as Gakakearit or Pakunteurak.
The name is spoken in full at formal occasions and
only the given name in informal occasions. When
among close friends it is not uncommon for given
names to be shortened even further into nicknames,
such as Gaka or Paku.

WRITTEN LANGUAGE

The written version of Na’ans takes into effect the
use of tone to impart inflection. This has resulted in
an alphabet with over 65,000 individual characters or
pictographs used in formal documents, poetry, music
and science. A simplified version of the alphabet,
only using 176 characters, is applied in everyday
situations. Nearly every Suerrat within the cultural
region can read and write both versions of the
alphabet but more reliance is placed on the simplified
version outside this area.

R

