HE SUERRAT

T CULTURAL REGION
In 671 the Suerrat people petitioned Emperor
Zhakirov to recognise their culture and establish
a Suerrat Cultural Region where they would be
afforded a level of autonomy. Their request was
not well received by the Moot, with many factions
citing the Ilelish Revolt and a fear that any autonomy
afforded to the Suerrat would result in another
uprising. Suerrat nobles worked tirelessly with Moot
political factions to garner support for their request.
Other cultural regions, such as the ones afforded to
the Geonee and Vilani, were used as precedents.
The petition was finally approved in 674, providing
the worlds which were members of the Suerrat
Republic during the Long Night limited autonomy to
rule themselves. The cultural region would be located
primarily within the Ilelish subsector and stretch
to include portions of the Miitan, Akkula Worlds,
Shudash and Desta subsectors. The powers afforded
to the cultural region were maintaining internal peace
and security between member worlds, preserving
Suerrat culture, protecting sophont rights, advancing
interstellar cooperation and being a centre for
harmony within the region.

No facility to act as an overseeing government
was afforded and all worlds were to retain self-rule.
Member worlds had the right to secede from the
region’s authority at any time. No provision was made
to legislate new laws, although the ability to set a
uniform policy to direct the entire multi-system region
was granted. In addition, the region was forbidden
from fielding any of its own military forces. However,
the formation of a small interstellar security force is
possible, with strict limitations on both the size of the
force and the displacement tons of its attached vessels.

THE SUERRAT REPUBLIC
GOVERNMENT
The Suerrat were not overly pleased with the
restrictions placed on their cultural region but were
not about to refuse the limited autonomy they had
been granted. They immediately began referring
to the area as the Suerrat Republic, although
the Imperium does not officially recognise the
name. The original member worlds of the previous
Suerrat Republic, over two dozen in total, formed a
provisional council to oversee the formation of an
advising body and invite other worlds in the region
to send representatives to speak on behalf of their
interests. Most, but not all, of the worlds within the
cultural region sent representatives to Dilipuu and
began the hard work they had ahead of them.
The first decision made was the formation of the
Suerrat United Worlds Council (SUWC) whose
powers were limited as stipulated by the Imperium.
An election was held among the representatives
to select the first Chair, which was awarded to the
representative from Ilelish. Discussion was raised
over where the SUWC should be headquartered. Both
Ilelish and Dilipuu were nominated. Dilipuu proved to
be the most popular choice – Ilelish still suffered from
the retribution of the Imperium over the Ilelish Revolt
and was in no economic position to act as the centre
of the Republic. Furthermore, Dilipuu was officially
recognised as the centre of Suerrat culture.

21

