T

Each world within the Republic is permitted to send a
representative to act on its behalf. Every world within
the council possessed an equal vote but retained
the right to issue proxy votes in the event their
representative was absent. Decisions put before the
UWC required a 75% majority to pass.
The Suerrat Republic has been successful in
upholding its charter. There continued to be
dissatisfaction with the limited autonomy afforded it
but the Republic persisted in petitioning the Imperium
for the greater freedoms afforded an autonomous
region. Great attention was paid to the Geonee’s
petition to establish their own autonomous region,
hoping to use a Geonee success to aid the Suerrat
petition. Empress Margaret’s reply to the Geonee
in 736 was enough to have the Suerrat withdraw all
petitions to form their own autonomous zone.

The Suerrat Cultural Region

The Suerrat Republic has little independent power
and often acts as a forum for discussion, debate and
diplomacy. The SUWC can eject member worlds from
its assembly but this has never happened. In its role
as a peacekeeping organisation, the UWC can request
troops and vessels volunteered from member worlds
to be deployed under its purview, and only within the
boundaries of the cultural zone, but there has been no
need for such action thus far.

22

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SUERRAT REGIONAL
SECURITY FORCE
Since the formation of the Suerrat Cultural Region
and the provision of an internal security force, several
petitions have been made to the Moot and various
emperors to allow the Suerrat Republic to form a
navy and army, citing the Geonee Cultural Region
as precedent. Unfortunately, the Ilelish Revolt had
not been forgotten and there was still concern over
providing the Suerrat with the means to attempt to
secede from the Imperium. Due to external events, all
official requests for further autonomy and independent
armed forces were retracted in 737.
Instead, the region is permitted an internal security
force. The Regional Security Force (RSF) is a
combined anti-piracy and border protection agency.
Their primary function is to reduce piracy within
the Suerrat Republic but secondarily functions in
preventing illegal immigrants into the Republic,
upholding both Imperial High Law and the laws of the
member worlds and as a customs force.
The RSF is funded through the contributions made to
the UWC by its member worlds. Personnel are drawn
from member worlds’ police and military agencies and
individuals who apply to join the service.

The SUWC is funded through ‘voluntary’ payments of
all member worlds. The payment is calculated based on
each world’s population and economic wealth within the
Suerrat Republic. However, the SUWC also receives
voluntary donations from large organisations and
businesses, both within and without the cultural zone,
which value the importance of the council. In addition,
some of the wealthier worlds within the region also
make voluntary contributions to the council over and
above their calculated payments.

Spacecraft utilised by the security forces cannot exceed
500 displacement tons. In addition, spacecraft may
have jump capability to assist in upholding their mission
of border security. Security assets are organised in a
similar fashion to the Imperial Navy – a fleet comprised
of taskforces and squadrons – and are based at several
worlds within the cultural region. Security Force assets
are permitted beyond the borders of the cultural region
but may not act in their enforcement role without prior
authority from the Imperial Navy, or local authorities
when within 100-diameters of an Imperial world.

The credits contributed towards the SUWC finance
its many affiliated specialised agencies, programs
and funds such as the Regional Peace Keeping
Forces, the Suerrat Republic Scientific Organisation,
the Republic Health Organisation and the Suerrat
Regional Security Force.

REGIONAL CRIMINAL
POLICE ORGANISATION
The Regional Criminal Police Organisation (RCPO)
is a region-wide organisation within the Suerrat
Cultural Region which facilitates interstellar police
cooperation and crime control. Headquartered on the
world of Spring/Ilelish (Ilelish 3106) it has regional
headquarters on all original member worlds of the first
Suerrat Republic and agencies on all member worlds
of the current Suerrat Republic.

R

