THE SUERRAT HOMEWORLD
Ilelish (E674A83-A), located in the Ilelish subsector of
Ilelish, is recognised as the Suerrat homeworld. The
world is the second of 10 planets in orbit around the
Vogut, a M0 V red dwarf sun, residing in orbit at an
average of 0.418AU, near outer edge of the habitable
zone. Ilelish also orbits within the sun’s jump shadow,
which ends at 0.511 astronomical units, requiring
spacecraft to emerge from jumpspace at the edge of the
jump shadow and proceed to the planet via manoeuvre
drive. Ilelish has an orbital period of 132 days 3 hours 7
minutes with a day length of 26 hours and 23 minutes.
Ilelish has a diameter of 9,172 kilometres and an
axial tilt of seven degrees, resulting in only slight
seasonal changes, making for a cool yet pleasantly
constant surface temperature averaging 8o Celsius.
The short orbital period around Vogut gives Ilelish

seasons slightly longer than a standard Imperial
month. Large icecaps cover both poles and the
planet boasts expansive temperate regions, with
small desert and tropical zones.
Ilelish possesses a standard atmosphere comprising
an oxygen/nitrogen mix. A strong ozone layer provides
significant protection from UV radiation produced
by the sun. The atmosphere is tainted with several
virulent viruses which can be dangerous to non-native
organisms. Symptoms of infection include fever,
headaches and joint pain, followed by difficulty in
breathing and in the worst cases organ failure and
death. Ilelish’s native lifeforms, including Suerrat,
possess natural immunity to airborne viruses. Visitors
require a filter mask to breathe the atmosphere
without risk, although vaccinations are available for
those who prefer on all worlds within two parsecs of
Ilelish as well as the planet itself.
Orbiting at a distance of 269,160 kilometres is Ilelish’s
only satellite, Komboko, which completes an orbit
around the planet every 24 days and 16 minutes. The
moon is tidally locked to Ilelish, has a diameter of 2,293
kilometres and has no atmosphere or hydrosphere.
Komboko is massive enough to stabilise Ilelish’s axial
wobble and imparts not insignificant tidal forces on the
planet. The moon is heavily colonised, supporting a
population of over 26 million inhabitants living in domes
and subterranean habitats.

GEOGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY
Ilelish is a rocky body with a large core made of iron.
A strong magnetic field is generated by the rotation of
the iron core, protecting the atmosphere from being
stripped away by the frequent solar activity from
the red dwarf primary. Spectacular auroras can be
seen from the northern and southern subsolar points
when solar activity is the most active. The iron core
also lends considerable density to the planet, Ilelish
has a gravity of 0.75G. The crust is divided into five
major tectonic plates and is still geologically active.
Volcanism is a relatively common occurrence with
between 30 and 40 eruptions each year.

24

