The surface of Ilelish is dominated by a single
supercontinent called Te’Asaat, which girdles the
entire planet. Te’Asaat is broken by the Pem ocean
and Trare sea in the northern hemisphere and the
Sirono sea in the southern hemisphere. The Alutirni
sea is a shallow inland sea that straddles the equator,
with the much smaller Tauker, Handuu and Lipansho
inland seas in the southern portion of Te’Asaat.
Finally, the landlocked Nansug sea can also be
found in the southern continent. There are two major
mountain ranges in the northern hemisphere and two
smaller mountain ranges in the southern hemisphere,
all of which are tall and rugged. Three deserts can
be found on the main continent, breaking up the thick
forests found almost everywhere else.

Plant life is similar to that found on countless other
worlds in Charted Space, ranging from simple algae
to huge trees and everything in between. Plants on
Ilelish do not produce flowers or bear fruit. Instead,
some species develop seeds in cone-like structures,
while in others seeds develop on the underside of
leaves in a manner like spores in Terran plants. Pollen
is spread primarily through the air, although some
plants have adapted to using animals as pollinators.
Due to the dim light from Ilelish’s sun, plants cannot
rely on chlorophyll to effectively photosynthesise.
Rather, plants use bacteriorhodopsin, a black pigment
that absorbs as much of the sun’s energy as possible.
This gives leaves and other photosynthetic surfaces a
deep purple-to-black-colouration.

Ilelish has large polar icecaps and glaciation
extending down to the subpolar points in some
areas. Large portions of the Pem ocean and Trare
sea are frozen on the surface.

One plant of note is the rhala tree, which once covered
up to 80% of the land. It has representative species
adapted to almost every climate on Ilelish except for
the oceans, ice caps and equatorial wastes. The tree
resembles the sequoia of Terran origins. The largest
specimens found in the equatorial rainforests had a
base trunk diameter of up to eight meters and a height
of up to 100 metres. All species of rhala trees develop
natural hollows in their trunks which are used by many
lifeforms as dens and shelters.

The equatorial zone has suffered devastating
ecological damage due to an Imperial retaliatory
bombardment in response to Ilelish’s instigating role
in the Ilelish revolt. Normally the location of lush wet
rainforests, this zone has been reduced to a wasteland
comprised primarily of desert and sterilised lands.
Rehabilitation has proven difficult as the area has
been reduced to bedrock in most places, making it
completely inhospitable to most life.

NATIVE LIFE FORMS

Until to 600 years ago Ilelish boasted a rich and diverse
ecosystem. Unfortunately, the repercussions of the
Imperial bombardment and subsequent biome damage
have led to the ecosystem being considerably affected,
reducing the planet’s overall biodiversity as would
be expected from an extinction-level event. Damage
mitigation has restored some of Ilelish’s biodiversity but
the planet’s ecosystem may never completely recover.

Pseudo-vertebrates are older than true vertebrates,
with representatives in tens of thousands of species.
Pseudo-vertebrates often possess six to ten limbs
which utilise hydraulic muscles for support and
movement, along with an external segmented armour
comprised of calcium phosphate which acts as a
pseudo spine upon which the muscles of the body
are attached. In some species, the shell has almost
disappeared or become internal. They are inertial
homeotherms – able to maintain a stable internal
temperature regardless of exterior influence. Pseudovertebrates are generally hermaphroditic. Most produce
eggs which they lay in mounds, although some species
store their eggs inside their body until they hatch, then
give birth to live young. Pseudo-vertebrates can be
found in many sizes ranging from as small as a mouse
to as large as twice the size of Terran elephants.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Native life on Ilelish is carbon-based using a structure
like DNA with four proteins composed of amino
acids. DNA structure is akin to Z-DNA, exhibiting a
left-handed double helix. All amino acids exhibit lefthanded chirality. Due to the amount of stellar activity
exhibited by Ilelish’s sun, native life risks exposure
to elevated levels of radiation causing cellular and
DNA damage leading to illness, genetic deformities in
offspring and even death. To survive such exposure,
all native life except those found in the deep ocean or
underground have an abundance of highly effective
cell and DNA repair proteins.

Animal life on Ilelish is varied and complex. Species
are divided into three main groups – true vertebrates,
pseudo-vertebrates and invertebrates. Most animal life
displays bilaterally symmetrical body designs with an
anterior and posterior, although notable examples of
asymmetrical and radial symmetry exist.

27

