T

True vertebrates evolved separately from a shared
prehistoric ancestor of the pseudo-vertebrates which
diverted hundreds of millions of years ago. These
species share several common traits. Vertebrates
generally have no external ears and breathe
through nostrils located near the front of the head.
Specialised vertebrates, including some amphibians
and aquatic species can breathe through their skin.
All vertebrates have four limbs.
True vertebrates generally exhibit sequential
hermaphroditism, meaning they change genders
under certain conditions. True vertebrates which live
in groups often have only one male who mates with all
the females. When the male dies, the dominant female
transitions into a male. Animals which tend to live
solitary lives turn male once they have given birth and
then revert to female after a period of time. This change
depends on several factors including temperature,
length of the day and the build-up of female sex
hormones in the body. Young are almost invariably born
female and males are born infertile.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Pseudo-vertebrates and true vertebrates have evolved
beaks which consist of a calcium phosphate skeleton
covered in tissue. The jaws of both main clades are
vertical rather than horizontal as in Suerrat. The beaks
of pseudo-vertebrates are uniformly without teeth and
kept hidden behind rubbery sphincter-muscled mouths
and only extended to eat. True vertebrates, especially
carnivorous species, have teeth as well as beaks.

28

Both major clades uniformly possess four eyes, with
one pair larger than the other. The larger pair of eyes
are adapted to low light, enabling most animals to see
clearly in the reduced sunlight produced by Ilelish’s
sun. The second pair of eyes are adapted to seeing
into the infrared spectrum to a lesser or greater
degree. Some species eyes are little more than
simple heat sensors, enabling them to differentiate
temperature variations in their environments. Others
have highly developed infrared vision, allowing them
to detect fine details and heat variation.
The ability to see into the infrared spectrum has led to
many species using heat variation in specialised skin
cells called ‘heat spots’ to indicate mood and intention.
All species can communicate threat, submission
and sexual readiness through their heat spots. More
intelligent species can communicate greater varieties
of emotions through their heat spots, including
complex mating and territorial displays.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The ocean and seas, despite their small sizes, show a
broad range of biodiversity. Due to the isolated nature of
the Nansug sea, it has a unique ecology dominated by
pseudo-vertebrate aquatic life. The other large bodies
of water are dominated by true vertebrate life, with the
most visible being ichthyoids with a finned tail which
moves in the horizontal plane as opposed to the vertical
like those of Terran fish. Due to the relatively small sizes
of Ilelish’s bodies of water, ichthyoids do not reach the
massive size of analogous species on Terra. Other
marine lifeforms include molluscs closely related to
pseudo-vertebrates and crustaceans. Colonial lifeforms
have not evolved on Ilelish, so there are no analogues
to jellyfish or other medusoids. Several examples of
land-based pseudo-vertebrates have returned partially
or wholly to marine life, filling the ecological roles of
whales, dolphins, porpoises and seals on Terra.
True vertebrates use several different metabolic
heating strategies, depending on the species. Primarily
endothermic, not insubstantial examples can be found
of both ectotherms and heterotherms. Ectotherms are
restricted largely to warmer climes.
True vertebrates also exhibit a range of exterior
covering including one or more of bare skin, keratinbased scales and a fur-like substance derived from
scales. Ectotherms tend to be solely covered in bare
skin or scales, while endo- and heterotherms are found
with all types of exterior covering.
Avian life has evolved from both true vertebrates
and pseudo-vertebrates on several occasions.
Regardless of their lineage, none exhibit any featherlike coverings. Instead, they are covered in scales
and fur. The wings of true vertebrates are more batlike in appearance, with skin stretching across one
or more phalanges and connecting to the body and
legs. Pseudo vertebrate wing structure is composed
of hydraulically powered specialised limbs. Avians
can be found across all environments on Ilelish from
the poles to the equatorial wastelands. A few species
have abandoned their aerial lifestyles and live a
marine life comparable to the penguins of Terra.

IMPERIAL NOBILITY

As a member world of the Third Imperium, Ilelish
holds the estates of two members of the Imperial
nobility, who are charged with overseeing and
representing their world in the Moot.

R

