STARPORT

Ilelish possesses a Class E starport located just
outside of the capital city of Ne’aa’alu. The port is
little more than a landing field comprised of a floating
platform enough for spacecraft of up to 1,000 tons
to land. In addition, two buildings, one dedicated
to starport administration and the other to customs
are located on the edge of the landing platform.
There are no additional facilities available for either
ships or crew, although there are several useful
services such as convenience stores, hotels, bars,
warehouses and workshops available in the star
town just beyond the extrality zone.
At first glance, a Class E starport is hardly sufficient
for a world with the population and industrial strength
of Ilelish. This shortfall is accommodated by several
large and well-equipped spaceports located in the
larger cities on the planet. While the spaceports do
not provide the benefits of those run by Starport
Authority, they do provide onsite warehousing, refined
and unrefined fuel, ship and crew services, as well as
port-side staff to assist with routine maintenance, cargo
handling and passenger administration.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Sir Namtarnkepturkit represents the Imperium to the
people of Ilelish. He has a small fief outside the capital
city of Ne’aa’alu. An Ilelish native, Sir Namtarnkepturkit
is an ageing Suerrat of almost 103 standard years
old. He has loyally represented the interests of the
Imperium to the people of Ilelish since he inherited
his title from his mother 56 years ago. During his
tenure, he has developed a reputation for being
a strong Imperial representative, showing wit and
courtesy in the execution of his duties. Unfortunately,
his advanced age has led to several infirmities, most
noticeable the onset of Suerrat degenerative dementia
syndrome, which has no cure. With his declining
health in mind, Sir Namtarnkepturkit is considering
which of his five children he will pass the title to in
turn. His eldest son, Saukumensudsot, believes he
should inherit the title but his father feels his son has
neither the temperament nor the subtlety to undertake
the duties of the knighthood adequately. Currently,
he is favouring his second child, a daughter named
Baltangmensuddak, to be his named successor as she
has exhibited the traits necessary for the role and most
importantly has shown no interest in inheriting it.

Count Ishugi Adkhar Diiguusham Gamgursha Enshi
represents Ilelish in the Imperial Moot. Ilelish is
one of four worlds in the Ilelish subsector the count
represents. He has a large estate in the city of Kakane,
which he rarely visits, as well as owning several large
industrial concerns in other cities on the planet. The
title has remained in his family since it was awarded
after the conclusion of the Ilelish Revolt over 600 years
ago. Count Ishugi comes from a long line of Vilani
nobles who can trace their ancestry back to the early
centuries of the Ziru Sirka. He became count at 28 on
the death of the previous count, his father. At only 33
standard years old, Ishugi has been a count for five
years. He has never been satisfied with being ‘only’
a count and has ambitions to ascend the Imperial
noble ladder. Count Ishugi spends most of his time on
Capital where he embroils himself in politics, leaving
the administration of his estates to underlings. He
has successfully manoeuvred himself into several
favourable positions and has established a strong
relationship with the archduke of Ilelish, all of which he
plans to manipulate to improve his noble position. He is
currently unmarried but has his eye on Lady Milisene,
the daughter and only child of the archduke of Ilelish.
Ishugi believes a union between their two houses
will place him in the perfect position to vie for the
archduke’s seat when it becomes available.

29

