T

TECH LEVEL

Ilelish has a mature TL10, with some areas of technology
sitting at TL11. Biological Sciences are at TL11 while
genetic manipulation and modification sciences are
early TL12. Environmental Sciences are TL10 and are
expected to advance to TL11 within 50 years.

GOVERNMENT

Ilelish enjoys a unified world government classified as a
Civil Service Bureaucracy. The world’s political parties
are all closely associated with the ministries and civil
agencies running the services they are most interested
in. Therefore, socialists run health and transport, greens
run the environment and labour runs employment
services and so forth. This leads to ministers who have
a strong understanding of the agencies they oversee.
Individual ministries and agencies have a pronounced
‘personality’ of their own – dignified and austere for
treasury, regimented for defence, conservative for
justice, charitable for health and so forth. Ministers are
drawn directly from the agency they oversee through
a process of merit with no public electoral process.
Policy is agency driven, as each is an expert in the
services and portfolios they run.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Individuals who wish to pursue a political career join
the agency which interests them, which has the side
effect of clearly declaring their political stance. Those
who show the right aptitude and skill are promoted
through the agency until they are suitable to be
considered for a ministerial position.

30

The government is divided into two levels – regional
and world parliaments. Regional parliaments govern
local areas while the world parliament governs Ilelish.
Regional parliament make laws for their region while
the world parliament makes laws for all Ilelish. Regional
laws cannot overrule world laws.
New and modified legislation is publicly presented and
argued upon within both regional and world parliaments
and then voted on by eligible citizens – locally for
regional laws and worldwide for global laws. Voting is
normally conducted electronically, although provisions
are made for other methods for voting on pivotal
matters. All Ilelish citizens and permanent residents are
permitted to vote once they reach the age of maturity,
which is 16, although there is no law which makes voting
mandatory. Legislation is passed via a simple majority of
51% of all votes received within a nominated period.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

LAW LEVEL

Ilelish has a Law Level of 3. At first glance this may
appear rather relaxed but there is little crime on Ilelish
compared to other worlds with similar populations.
The egalitarian nature of the planetary culture ensures
no one is poor or lacking any necessities of life, which
is often the source of crime on other worlds. The
attitude towards drugs is one of health rather than
punishment, which reduces cases of drug related
crimes. While the open carrying of weapons is not
illegal, there is little need to carry one within cities.
Individuals openly carrying weapons in populated
areas are often questioned by law enforcement
officers regarding their intent.
On most of Ilelish many animals are legally classified
as sentient beings, which means any crimes committed
against them are treated similarly to crimes committed
against sophonts. This equality is for animals which
have proven to be self-aware. In a similar vein, pets
and animal companions are heavily protected by the
law. On most worlds, pets are often seen as property
by the law, meaning if they are stolen, injured or killed
the crime is considered the same as if perpetrated on
any inanimate property. Conversely, on Ilelish, pets
and animal companions are viewed as more than
property. Specific laws identify crimes against them
as separate from inanimate property and protect them
as loved and valued lifeforms. The penalty for these
crimes is harsh and can include both steep fines and
periods of incarceration.
Despite this rather laid-back attitude, crimes such as
sedition, treason and revolt are harshly punished. Ilelish
still bears the scars of the Ilelish Revolt of the 400s
and the legal system is geared towards preventing
a reprisal of the era. Therefore, these crimes are
punished the most severely, with imprisonment for life
being the most lenient sentence for those found guilty.
The legal system in Ilelish assumes all accused
individuals are innocent until proven guilty by a
court of law and a jury of their peers. Ilelish has a
robust legal platform with lawyers to represent those
accused of crimes.
Those sentenced to incarceration are provided with
intense rehabilitation to enable them to reintegrate
into society successfully. Prisons are designed to be
comfortable and supportive as opposed to places
where punishment is enacted.

R

