MILITARY

Ilelish has a strong military force comprising ground,
airborne and space capabilities. Planetary forces
comprise 5,000 regiments, 15,000 battalions in total,
1,400 of which are mobile lift infantry, Equipment for
planetary forces is top-of-the-line TL10. Elite forces are
equipped with TL11 equipment procured offworld.
Naval forces are composed primarily of system
defence boats and monitors. The largest vessel in
the Ilelish fleet is an ancient Inukerku-class light
cruiser purchased from the Imperial Navy when it
was superseded by more advanced vessels several
hundred years ago. Named the Tuli’eii Ilelish, her
spinal mount is no longer functional and the jump
drive has been stripped out, turning the vessel into
little more than a glorified monitor. Despite its reduced
functionality, the Tuli’eii Ilelish is more than an adequate
deterrent to pirates and smugglers.
Of the remaining jump-capable ships in the Ilelish navy,
the majority are no larger than 400-tons with only a
small handful in the 1,000-ton range.

ECONOMY

Ilelish is a high population, industrial world with
abundant resources and a labour force counted
in the billions, making it an important world in the
Third Imperium. An extremely strong infrastructure
supports the world’s population and industries,
making the movement of individuals and products
easy. Primary exports include alloys, weapons,
mechanical parts and goods, heavy equipment,
electronics, gravitics and information.

DEMOGRAPHICS
The population of Ilelish is overwhelmingly Suerrat in
nature. There are small populations of other species
both human and otherwise located in the larger cities,
but statistically, their number is inconsequential.
Of the other species on the planet, the most

More cosmopolitan populations can be found in the star
and space towns, although even those populations are
largely human in nature. Aliens who live permanently
around the ports tend to congregate in enclaves where
they can enjoy the company of their own people.

CULTURE

As would be expected of their homeworld, the culture
of Ilelish is resoundingly Suerrat. While the planet is no
longer recognised as the centre of Suerrat culture, as
the centre of the previous two Suerrat Republics it still
exemplifies gregariousness, the importance of family,
the equality of all citizens and the spirit of cooperation.
Even so, an air of sadness pervades the culture of
Ilelish. The world’s environment has been deeply
damaged by the Imperium, with some areas never
likely to recover. Thousands of species of native life
have been rendered extinct and while there have been
successes in recovering some of those lost species
through importation from populations transplanted on
other worlds or through de-extinction programs, many
have been lost forever.
Along with the air of sadness is one of wariness of
the government and authority. Suerrat blame the
damage done to their homeworld not on the Imperium
which inflicted it but on the short-sightedness of the
government of the day. Ilelish natives do not have great
trust in their politicians, leading to a huge proportion
of the population being strongly interested in politics.
From an early age, children are educated in the political
process and their role in ensuring a repeat of the Ilelish
Revolt does not occur. The right to vote and make
their voice heard is deeply ingrained in Ilelish culture,
leading to Ilelish having the largest percentage of
voters among all the worlds of the Suerrat Republic.
The Suerrat of Ilelish also have a tendency
towards preservation and future-proofing, another
ramification of the Imperial Retribution. In remote
locations around the world, deep underground and
even in orbit, secure vaults have been constructed
to house the genetic material of every animal
and plant on Ilelish as a failsafe should another

The Suerrat Homeworld

An export of note is biotechnology in the form of
genetically modified organisms at the early TL12 level
of sophistication. Products range from plants and
animals modified to flourish on specific worlds to unique
pets designed to a client’s specifications. Organic
symbionts which provide host lifeforms with expanded
or additional abilities are also a major export.

numerous are those of Vilani and Solomani descent
whose ancestors were trapped on Ilelish during
the Long Night. These humans have largely been
integrated into Ilelish society and culture, considering
themselves Suerrat in all but ancestry.

31

