T

extinction event impact their world. The vaults are
regularly updated with new genetic material as
it is discovered, keeping the data as relevant as
possible. They are heavily protected, both physically
and by law, to ensure no harm comes to them.

URBANISATION

The Suerrat Homeworld

Ilelish has a population of 28 billion. With such a
high population, there is an obvious conflict between
urbanisation and preserving the ecology. The people
of Ilelish have taken on this challenge successfully
in several ways. In the wastelands on the equatorial
zone are 12 arcologies, each housing over a billion
inhabitants without impacting the environment. Each
arcology works at returning the lands around it to their
original condition. Unfortunately, little success has
been achieved due to the extent of the damage. Where
they have failed outside the archologies, they have
succeeded within. Many areas within each arcology are
dedicated to natural environments. Here can be found
the otherwise extinct equatorial giant rhala trees and
the microenvironments they support.

32

Smaller cities, some with hundreds of millions of
inhabitants, are located beyond the wastelands and
oceans. These cities have been built to complement
the environment around them with minimum impact,
with strict regulations and harsh punishments for
transgressions. Cities are densely populated in order to
have the smallest footprint possible and the boundaries
between urban development and wilderness are
blurred. Structures within cities utilise living rhala trees
where possible, incorporating the natural hollows the
trees produce into their structures. Where this is not
possible or practical, structures are built on gravitic
platforms beside trees so the impact on the surface
environment is minimised. Structures are predominately
circular, both wrapped around tree trunks and free
standing. Foot traffic is restricted to balconies and
bridges between the trees. Vehicular traffic is gravitic
and restricted to above the treeline.
The laws on Ilelish strongly protect the environment.
Harsh punishments are enacted on polluters and those
who damage the ecosystem. Therefore, all industries
which produce environmentally damaging pollution are
not located planetside. Instead, such industries are
located on the moon or in orbital manufactories where

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

pollution has little chance of impacting the planet.
Furthermore, the mining of basic resources is also
illegal on Ilelish. Mining is instead undertaken on the
other planets and asteroids in the Ilelish system.

PLACES AND EVENTS
Ilelish has hundreds if not thousands of areas worth
visiting, without even mentioning the multitude of
festivals celebrated across the planet. Some of the
most popular are mentioned here but these are only a
tiny sample of what tourists can find.
Komboko: Ilelish’s only natural satellite Komboko is
a significant population centre and tourist attraction.
The main settlement Tureau’otar is a huge domed city
over 12 kilometres in diameter. The entire area under
the dome is dedicated to a jungle reserve, one of the
few places in the system where living tropical rhala
trees and the virtually extinct aginkam can be seen,
along with hundreds of other lost species. The reserve
is kept as natural as possible in the hopes of one
day using it as a source to return the lost equatorial
ecosystem to Ilelish. Beneath the jungle, a city has
been built deep into the crust of Komboko, which
houses in excess of 10 million inhabitants. Much of
the city’s economy is based on recovering extinct
species and returning them to the wild. Hundreds
of large biospheres are located throughout the
subterranean city where both animals and plants are
prepared for their return to the wild on Ilelish below.
Ne’aa’alu: Located deep in the Tete’imaser temperate
forest, Ne’aa’alu became the capital of Ilelish after
the previous capital in the equatorial zone Masakes
was destroyed during the Imperial Retribution. A
huge metropolis with a population exceeding a billion
people, Ne’aa’alu was constructed in harmony with the
surrounding ecology. Towering skyscrapers embrace
majestic rhala trees while gravitic platforms support
buildings which could prove harmful to said trees. The
city is an excellent example of Suerrat construction
techniques. The air above Ne’aa’alu is chaotic with
gravitic vehicular traffic, all of which is controlled by
Artificial Expert Intelligence (AEI) to prevent collisions.
Apart from the sheer beauty of the city, there are
several tourist attractions well worth visiting. The
Penikauka’an building, where the Ilelish government
sits, is a beautiful example of early Itas period
architecture. The I’eekruaka’an Museum is probably the
best on the planet and holds innumerable relics from

R

