all of Ilelish’s historical periods. A few short kilometres
beyond the city is a rhala tree thought to be the oldest
example of its species. Estimated at an incredible
1,900 years old, the tree is a tourist destination which
draws both Suerrat and other sophonts alike.
Rotukeneu Oi’erasaasur: In a band along the
equator of Ilelish lies the Rotukeneu Oi’erasaasur
– translated as the plain of retribution and despair.
The plain is a 2,000 kilometre wide area of blasted
wasteland, rendered sterile in 435 as punishment for
Ilelish’s pivotal role in the Ilelish Revolt. The surface
of the plain was blasted down to the raw bedrock
by orbital bombardment, exterminating everything
which lived in the area including the ancient rhala
rainforests from which Suerrat civilisation sprung. The
bombardment ejected three trillion tons of dust and
ash into the upper atmosphere, surrounding the planet
and plunging it into a nuclear winter lasting almost a
quarter of a century. When the dust and ash clouds
finally cleared, Ilelish was in ruins. Countless animal
and plant species were lost, and entire ecosystems
were destroyed. Despite their work in trying to restore
the Rotukeneu Oi’erasaasur over the last 700 years,
little progress has been made. The area is considered
a very costly reminder of what the greed of politicians
and revolt against the Imperium cost Ilelish. The
site has almost religious significance to the Suerrat,
serving as a stark warning against putting too much
trust in the hands of those in power.

Dilipuu University of Biological and Environmental
Sciences, Ilelish Campus (DUBESIC): This is a wellrespected university which has surpassed its parent
campus in many ways. Boasting the very finest of
facilities and equipment, DUBESIC draws talented and
promising students and staff from across the sector.

Ki Aa Kagiik Ikiishilshgiger: More of an observance
than a festival, the Ki Aa Kagiik Ikiishilshgiger – Night
of Tears – commemorates the retribution inflicted on
Ilelish at the end of the Ilelish Revolt. It is observed
every Imperial year on day 289. Suerrat across
Ilelish gather in open areas with friends, family and
community members, performing a silent vigil while
candles are lit. The candles represent the glow from
the orbital bombardment which rained down destruction
on the equatorial zone. During the vigil, the candles
are sent aloft in flimsy sky lanterns or set afloat on
tiny rafts. The Night of Tears is a sombre and reverent
event which brings many observers to tears for the
great loss suffered by the people of Ilelish.
Mudimzinii Akla Iun: Celebrated on the first day of
spring on Ilelish, the Mudimzinii Akla Iun – Spring
Fertility Festival – acknowledges the return of the
season of spring and the promise of new life. The
festival traditionally begins by watching the sunrise.
This is followed by parades of brightly clothed
participants accompanied by live music. The parade
is a wild and chaotic event that includes adults and
children. The parade and observing crowd tend to
mingle and mix, making it difficult to determine which is
which. The parades lead to a playful free-for-all where
participants throw small pouches containing multicoloured powders at each other, leaving them covered
in pigment. Finally, the festival ends in fairs where food
and live entertainment can be enjoyed.

ANIMAL ENCOUNTERS
Many of Ilelish’s native lifeforms have been transplanted
to other worlds, making them quite common in the
subsectors surrounding the Suerrat Cultural Zone.
Some have even made their way as far as the Spinward
Marches or the Domain of Gateway. An interesting note
regarding the animals native to Ilelish is their size –
megafauna is common on the planet. Despite their size,
animal life is rarely as durable as similarly sized animals
due to the planet’s lower gravity.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Maaa’irani’ar Enisud: Found on the Tiaka’etam Plains,
the Maaa’irani’ar – singing stones – are a collection
of stone monoliths grouped in concentric circles of
decreasing size. The purpose of the stones and who
constructed them are a mystery but scholars believe
they predate Suerrat recorded history and perhaps
even the arrival of Suerrat on Ilelish. The monoliths
are carved from basalt rock mined over 100 kilometres
away, brought to their current location and stood
upright. Carved to look vaguely humanoid, they are
largely hollow and have openings at irregular points
along their length. When the wind blows through them,
the monoliths generate an eerie keening which can be
heard up to 16 kilometres away.

The facility maintains a Tech Level in the biological
and environmental fields in the low TL15, which far
surpasses any similar facility on the planet. Graduates
of DUBESIC are highly valued in the biological and
environmental fields, often finding lucrative employment
far from the Ilelish Cultural Zone.

33

