T

Aginkam
Aginkam are highly successful true vertebrate
predators of the iteoka species which can be found in
every climate. Cooperative arboreal predators, they
are adapted to live in tropical rhala trees, forming a
symbiotic relationship where they protect the tree
and in return shelter in their natural hollows. Since
the devastation of the equatorial zones, aginkam
are no longer found in the wild on Ilelish. Adults
can achieve lengths of 3.5 metres and weigh 300
kilograms. Their fur is black with deep purple stripes
and spots to aid in camouflage while hunting. The
head is long with four eyes set far back along the
skull. The jaw has a heavily toothed beak that can
open extraordinarily wide to the sides.

The Suerrat Homeworld

Superbly adapted for hunting in trees, their four legs
end in four-toed claws which are divided into two
mutually opposable groups which can be used to grip
branches tightly. On each forepaw is a large sickleshaped claw which extends from the wrist. Held up
whilst climbing, the aginkam can bring the sickle-claws
down in a slicing motion when attacking prey, causing
deep wounds which bleed profusely. A long thick tail
aids in balance while climbing or leaping, athough it
is not prehensile. While supremely agile in the trees,
aginkam are somewhat clumsy on the ground.

34

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Aginkam are ferocious hunters and highly territorial.
Adults organise themselves into prides consisting
of two to twelve unrelated individuals. Only a single
dominant pair of individuals breed. Young are born
in litters numbering one to five and are immediately
capable of climbing onto their mother’s back and
clinging to her fur. They grow quickly and roam away
from their mother at one month, at which point the other
females in the group share in their rearing. The young
spend the next three months learning to hunt, after
which they are driven off to find groups of their own.
Animal

Hits

Speed

Aginkam

13

12m

Skills

Athletics (dexterity) 3, Athletics
(endurance) 2, Melee (natural) 3,
Recon 3, Stealth 2, Survival 2

Attacks

Bite (2D), Sickle-Claws (1D+3)

Traits

Camouflaged, Heightened Senses,
Fast Metabolism (+1)

Behaviour

Carnivore, Chaser

R

