SUERRAT HISTORY
PREHISTORY

In -315000, the Ancients arrive on Terra and collect a
group of hominids to be used as pets and servants.
Transported to Ilelish, the hominids are settled in the
vast jungles of the equatorial regions and the Ancients
began a program to genetically alter them to survive
their new home better. They make their feet semiprehensile and strengthened their arms and grip to
aid in brachiating. The Ancients manipulate the genes
responsible for hair growth, giving the hominids a silky
pelt of fur to keep them warm in the colder climate.
Finally, they strengthened their cell and DNA proteins to
better resist the mutating effects of Ilelish’s sun.
The Ancients abandon Ilelish in -300000. Before
departing they remove almost all evidence of their
presence on the planet and destroy what they cannot
remove. They also release the Suerrat they kept
as servants and pets into the wild. Left to fend for
themselves without the Ancients’ oversight and having
none of the advanced tools they were familiar with, the
Suerrat, naturally predisposed to arboreal life, take to
the trees. They soon learn of the natural hollows in the
rhala trees but discover many of the hollows they wish
to use as shelter are protected by the native dog-like
aginkam. Savage competition ensues between the
Suerrat and aginkam for this valuable shelter.
By -260000, some aginkam adapt to the presence
of the Suerrat in their hollows; allowing the hominids
to share in their shelter had certain benefits such as
access to food and improved safety. Over the next
5,000 years, the aginkam which live alongside the
Suerrat diverge from their wild ancestors into the
domesticated migukas. Suerrat find the migukas
to be valuable companions, providing warmth,
protection and assistance in hunting.
Suerrat populations grow and spread. By -85000
groups have populated the entire equatorial jungle
regions and begun to spread along the Sirono and
Trare coasts, taking their domesticated migukas with
them. Expansion continues into the savannah forests
beyond the equator. They continue to spread into
the thick temperate forests by -60000 and reach the
shores of the Pem ocean by -50000.

38

Agriculture develops around -28000. Agriculture is
first restricted to simply collecting the seeds and
spores of wild plants which lived as parasites on the
limbs and trunks of rhala trees and planting them in
more convenient locations. Suerrat gradually learn to
plant the seeds and spores of plants which provided
greater harvests. In time, this behaviour led to the
understanding of simple selective breeding and the
domestication of the giiraste, nuslah and halsuu plants –
the three grains which formed the basis of wide scale
food production and led to the birth of civilisation.
Around -18000 the Suerrat learn to mill seeds and
spores to create flours, from which bread could be
made. For the first time enough food was being made
to allow some members of society to focus on other
endeavours, resulting in early skill specialisation.

THE FIRST CIVILISATIONS

Almost simultaneously, in historical terms, three
civilisations emerged in -14000; the Nipikians settled
on the shores of the Lisgamag river in the area which
is now known as southern Sigiim, the Kushidamians
in the Shamkirku valley and the Gennismas on
the sheltered Raalah river delta on the Trare sea.
The rivers provided two main advantages to the
development of these civilisations, with water to irrigate
fields and offering the easiest method of transport for
societies without paved roads.
While isolated from each other, the three civilisations
grew rapidly and prospered. The increase of available
food brought about by farming and agriculture produced
a surplus which enabled some members of society to
specialise in other tasks. The cooperative nature of the
Suerrat led to the early development of democracy and
the joint responsibility of decision making.

THE BRONZE AGE

In -13500, the neolithic tribes on the banks of the
Zuruarl river discover how to manufacture bronze,
heralding their advancement to early TL1. Over
100 years, the knowledge of bronze working has
been shared amongst the scattered tribes along the

