river, improving their ability to hunt, farm and defend
themselves. It is not known whether contact with the
Nipikians inspired the first civilisation of Zukarlak or it
was the discovery of bronze but by -13400 the tribes
living on the Zuruarl river combine into a unified and
sophisticated culture. Over the next 1,000 years, the
Zukarlak civilisation with its three large cities of Gisurk,
Mighiish and Kilakkhan spreads over an area larger
than Nipik and Kushidam combined.

AGE OF DISCOVERY

Also in -13400, a distinctive civilisation develops
centred on the Nansug sea. The bays and inlets of
the rugged coastal region and the many small islands
strung across the sheltered sea combine to make
the area ideal for trade and the sharing of cultures.
Beginning on the island of Tase’at, civilisation spreads
across the area, both on land and via water. Water
transport experienced rapid development, going from
simple rafts to canoes, catamarans and then simple
sailing craft in only 200 years, assisting the Tase’at
civilisation in controlling the vast Nansug sea.

Over the following 300 years, scientific advancement
continues as discoveries spread throughout the various
Suerrat nations. By -10000 Gennismas experience their
industrial revolution, bringing them to TL3 and making
them the most scientifically advanced culture on Ilelish.

On the eastern shores of the Pem ocean, the Laminkir
civilisation begins in -13000. This spreads along the
ocean’s shores and quickly develops the boating
skills to travel into deeper water and allow them to
settle on both sides of the Pem ocean. This leads to
contact with the Gennismian civilisation. First contact
results in several small confrontations but both peoples
quickly resolve their differences and trade commences
between the two civilisations.
In -12600, the distinct Tare’at civilisation comes to a
sudden and unexplained end. Approximately 300 years
later a robust seafaring people known as the Rutkin
become extensive traders. Ships again sail across the
Nansug sea and contact many Suerrat groups which
had been forgotten by the fall of the Tare’at. There the
Tasko, Kaian and Tamlom seafaring civilisations rapidly
develop and soon join the Rutkin as traders.

GLOBAL CIVILISATION

The industrial revolution spread quickly across Ilelish,
bringing a significant change in Suerrat culture.
Cities grew quickly, putting a strain on the local
environment. Mass production of goods meant cities
could support more individuals, which allowed schools
and universities to become available to the masses.
Travel becomes faster and more convenient using coal
and steam, allowing Suerrat to explore more of their
world and encounter primitive tribes which are rapidly
introduced to more advanced technology. In less than
100 years, Suerrat civilisation spans the globe.
The leap from an agricultural society to an industrial
one proves to be more than the environment can
handle. The demand for coal increases exponentially
with time, requiring forests to be cut to produce the
fuel. The need for coal sees more land cleared to
make way for mines. Pollution from the soot and
smoke produced from coal burning causes even more
environmental damage. Soot covered the leaves of
the trees the Suerrat still lived in, preventing them
from receiving the light they need to photosynthesise
and resulting in them dying in alarming numbers. Soot
dirtied the river systems, changing their pH values
and leading to the death of fish as well as more trees.
The soot rising into the atmosphere caused acid rain,
which increased the acidification of the waterways
and seas, leading to the death of even more of the
Suerrats’ beloved natural environment.
At first, the convenience brought about by using coal
and steam led the Suerrat to overlook the damage
it caused. The environmental damage continued to
take its toll, leading to homelessness, illness and
food shortages. Social unrest quickly followed, forcing
the governments of the world to explore alternatives

Suerrat History

By -12000, the major Suerrat civilisations had contact
with each other. Regular trade develops from one
end of the continent to the other. With trade comes
the sharing of ideas and discoveries, along with
religious beliefs and the concepts of egalitarianism and
democracy. Each civilisation continues to spread and
invariably encounters other less sophisticated Suerrat.
Contact with such groups is generally friendly, although
occasional hostilities still occur.

By -10500, the Suerrat discover iron. The discovery
heralds a period of unprecedented scientific progress
aided by extensive trade routes throughout the
civilised Suerrat world. In less than 200 years, the
Rutkins and Tamloms on the Nansug sea and the
Laminkirs on the Pem ocean develop sophisticated
sailing craft as the Gennismas develop the printing
press, bringing their societies into early TL2.

39

