T

to the use of coal as an energy source. Vast public
finances were poured into university coffers, enabling
them to initiate numerous research programs into
alternative energy sources. The use of wind and water
to generate power was explored with success. With
the discovery of electricity, the rate at which scientific
discoveries were made accelerated.
The increased funding to universities enabled other
sciences to benefit, leading to breakthroughs in
medicine and food production. By -9800, the Suerrat
reached TL6. Technical and scientific advancements
such as the solar panel enabled the Suerrat to have
multiple forms of renewable energy production
which generate little or no pollution. Projects to
repair or reverse the environmental damage
caused to their planet were undertaken with
success. Pollution was still an issue and would
continue to be so if the Suerrat could not find a way
to meet the needs of a technological society without
damaging their environment.

THE SPACE AGE

Suerrat History

Early forays into the orbital space of Ilelish were
achieved in -9787, setting Suerrat sights on a greater
achievement – exploring their moon. By -9785 the
Suerrat launch their first unmanned probe using
chemical rockets to orbit their moon, followed by
a crewed expedition in -9783. The expedition was
so successful that additional missions were sent to
the lunar surface where valuable resources were
discovered. The first moon colony was established in
-9760, with more built in the following years. By -9750,
the Suerrat had established eight lunar colonies,
five of which were mining settlements, and the lunar
population had exceeded 10,000.

40

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

By -9700 the Suerrat had achieved TL8. Following
soon after in -9689, thermonuclear-powered propulsion
was invented. Using chemical rockets to take off and
land on Ilelish allowed vessels to traverse the distance
to other planets in a fraction of the time previously
required. Journeys which took days were reduced to
hours, while those taking years now took months.
Much of their pollution-causing manufacturing was
performed in orbit, while the initial moon mining
colony had grown to a population of a million. Ilelish
was connected by a vast global network allowing
almost instantaneous communication and data
access anywhere. In the following decades, crewed
exploratory missions were sent to the moons of Katlek
and Maklob to establish the first commercial offworld
mining colonies. Chemical rockets were completely
replaced with magnetic launch systems, allowing for
environmentally friendly launches and re-entries. Most
space vehicles were either built in the orbit of Ilelish or
on the surface of the moon.
Advances in medical sciences see Suerrat lifespans
increase beyond anything they had ever been.
Genetic sciences reduce the dangers of space travel
as well as eradicating many diseases which had
previously plagued Suerrat with death or disability.
Nuclear fission technology has advanced to the point
where smaller and safer generators could produce the
same amount of energy as the much larger generators
of a decade or so prior.

With the success of the first moon launches,
advancements in rocket propulsion continued along
with the establishment of staffed orbital satellites
followed by manufacturing facilities. Chemically fuelled
probes were sent to explore the other planets in the
Suerrat solar system. Suerrat dreamed of colonising
the other planets in their solar system but the time it
took to reach those planets in crewed vehicles made
the endeavour unreasonable.

Over the next 200 years the Suerrat colonised their
solar system, establishing settlements on dozens
of moons, exploring the gas giants and discovering
valuable ore heavy asteroids in their Trojan orbits.
In -9585, the Suerrat send unmanned probes to the
nearest extra-solar systems. Using thermonuclearpowered pulse propulsion units able to accelerate craft
to 10% of the speed of light the journey would take the
probes nearly 40 years to reach their destinations and
almost another four years before any communications
by radio would be received. The Suerrat were not
dismayed by how long it would take before they heard
anything. They knew building vessels capable of taking
colonists to new solar systems would be a daunting task
and used the time it would take to hear back from their
probes to make a start on the massive undertaking.

In -9742, Suerrat scientists successfully split the
atom. The development of nuclear power increased
the feasibility of space travel to other planets in
the near future.

By -9550, the population of Ilelish is seven billion.
The solar system had been largely explored and
served as home to 50 million living on asteroids,
moons and other planets.

R

