TO THE STARS

In -9541, the Suerrat receive radio broadcasts from
the probes sent to the three stars within one parsec
of Ilelish. Two probes report the discovery of planets
capable of supporting life in the habitable zones
of their stars. The first two colony ships, called
‘slowboats’ were already constructed and five more
were in various stages of completion.
The slowboats are over a kilometre long and designed
for an initial crew of 200. Room on the boat was
provided for the population to increase through births to
2,000 colonists during the journey. The addition of selfsustaining closed environments allowed the inclusion of
the nucleus of an entire ecosystem. These slowboats
were designed to spin on their long axis to produce
artificial gravity when not under thrust.
In -9534 the first two slowboats are launched. The
first is sent to the star the Suerrat called Eritlep
(Ilelish sector 3006). The second is sent to the
Dilipuu (Ilelish sector 2807).
In -9500, a breakthrough discovery in gravitics power
takes the Suerrat to TL9. The discoveries provide an
unprecedented improvement in propulsion technology
through reactionless thrusters, doing away with the

need for vessels to carry vast quantities of reaction
mass and only requiring enough fuel to power the
thrusters for the extent of the journey. These vessels
could achieve 20% of the speed of light.
Advancements in magnetic technology in -9497
allowed the colony vessels to be equipped with
ramscoops in their bow, enabling them to collect
hydrogen from the interstellar medium to fuel the
powerplant. Enough fuel would be needed on
board for the ship to achieve the velocity required
for hydrogen collection to begin but, once it was
reached, the ships had an endless supply of fuel.
During the next 600 years, the Suerrat colonised
more than two dozen star systems. By -8900, this
federation – The Suerrat Republic – was linked by
gravitically-propelled ram-scoop slowboats travelling
at more than 50% light speed.
The discovery of habitable worlds which were
not quite perfect for Suerrat comfort led to further
increases in the sciences of biology, chemistry,
genetic and planetary engineering. The Suerrat
preferred colonising planets that were as like Ilelish
as possible but, when confronted with less habitable
worlds, they were happy to undertake terraforming
projects to make the planet more suitable.
During this time, the Suerrat had not met another
technologically sophisticated species. While they
hoped they would one day have such a meeting,
they were beginning to believe they were the only
advanced culture in the galaxy.

THE VILANI

The initial interactions between the two polities
were pleasant but in time grew coldly cordial
and strained as the Suerrat continually refused
to join the Ziru Sirka. The Republic and Empire
remained at loggerheads, pressure building until the
situation would soon explode after -5400 with the
commencement of the Consolidation Wars.

Suerrat History

In -8100, the Suerrat were finally contacted by another
advanced civilisation. A Vilani exploratory trader arrived
at Squee’tak on the edge of the Suerrat Republic. The
Vilani possessed a drive system the Suerrat had never
heard of which allowed the Vilani to travel faster than
the speed of light. After arduous talks, the Vilani agreed
to trade the secret of jump technology to the Suerrat for
their advanced medicines and biological products. The
Suerrat and Vilani became close trading partners. The
Vilani attempted to convince the Suerrat to join their
growing empire but the Suerrat politely refused.

41

