T

The Suerrat, being a peaceful people, had no use for
warships, so they were woefully unprepared when
a Vilani fleet arrived in -5390, demanding their total
submission to the Ziru Sirka or annihilation. The Suerrat
resisted with what few vessels they could quickly arm
but it soon became apparent there was no way they
could defend themselves against the might of the
Vilani. In -5370, the Suerrat sued for peace and the
Vilani demanded the dissolution of the federation and
their absorption into the Vilani empire as a condition.
The Suerrat had no option but to agree.
Almost immediately the Suerrat found themselves
living under Vilani law, forced to adopt Vilani customs
and having no choice but to accept a Vilani governor
and thousands of Vilani immigrants onto their worlds.
The Suerrat bitterly resented the nature of Vilani rule
and the systematic destruction of their culture and
beliefs. Pockets of resistance grew on many planets
which were once members of the Suerrat Republic,
causing civil unrest and sabotaging Vilani interests
to make their worlds less attractive to their alien
overlords. Unfortunately, the result of their unrest was
the exact opposite of what they intended.

Suerrat History

The Vilani were not prepared to tolerate any Suerrat
uprisings. In retaliation, worlds were placed under tight
military rule. Entire Suerrat populations were forcibly
removed and relocated to other worlds under strong
Vilani control. The slightest hint of dissent was met
with swift reprisals, mass arrests, incarceration and,
at times, summary execution. Suerrat culture was
outlawed and they were forced to accept the Vilani way
of life with no exceptions. Over the ensuing centuries,
Suerrat culture was essentially eradicated, only kept
alive by word of mouth and hidden caches of literature.

42

The darkest hour in Suerrat history had arrived. They
would remain under the harsh rule of the Ziru Sirka for
over 3,000 years before they had the chance to free
themselves from the Vilani’s suffocating yoke.

THE INTERSTELLAR WARS
The long series of wars collectively known as the
Interstellar Wars began in -2408 when a Vilani
trade convoy in the Barnard system was fired
upon by Terrans for ignoring traffic control signals.
The Terrans believed an attack was imminent and
destroyed some of the vessels. The resulting war
was a small affair limited to only a few systems and
ended in -2396 but the Terrans formed a unified
government during this period.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

News of the conflicts arrived in Ilelish a little over
three years after the conflict began but the war was
so far away it had no impact on the Suerrat apart
from them cheering on a species standing up for
themselves against the Ziru Sirka. The impact of
the Interstellar Wars would not affect the Suerrat for
almost another 200 years.
More conflicts took place over the next 200 years as
the Terrans chafed at the perception of being pinned
down by the Vilani. Tensions would boil over into full
scale war more than nine times, with territory won and
lost by both sides. As the core of the Ziru Sirka was
far from the arena of conflict, few reinforcements were
sent. Vilani governors were content to ‘buy off’ the
Terrans by granting them control over a few Imperial
worlds in exchange for brief periods of peace.
In -2262 the Terrans defeated the Ziru Sirka soundly
using advanced technology. Although the war was
officially declared over, hostilities between the Terran
Confederation and the Ziru Sirka continued, often
exacerbated by the distance communications had
to travel before commanding authorities could react.
In -2228, news reached the Suerrat on Ilelish of an
approaching Terran fleet. They used the alarm caused
by the news to wage their guerrilla war to disrupt
the local Vilani war machine. The conflict spread
throughout the space once controlled by the Suerrat
Republic. The ferocity and success of the uprising saw
Vilani fleeing from Suerrat worlds by the millions. Those
who did not or could not flee were offered the chance
to surrender peacefully and accept Suerrat sovereignty
or safe passage. Those who chose to continue to resist
the Suerrat were dealt with accordingly.
By -2224 the Terrans were victorious at the Battle of
the Three Suns. The Suerrat had disrupted the Vilani
so much they were able to declare their independence
from the Ziru Sirka and ally themselves with the Terran
Confederation. While many rich and influential Vilani
abandoned the planets they had grown to consider
their own, many of the poor remained as they could
see opportunities to improve their lives under the new
Suerrat government. These Vilani were integrated
into Suerrat society and permitted to maintain their
traditions and culture as long as they did not try to force
their ideology on the Suerrat.
Some Suerrat joined the Terran Confederation in ships
they had obtained from their Vilani overlords, joining
their new allies in taking the war to the core of the
empire. Whilst the conflict continued, Suerrat worlds

R

