underwent a revival of Suerrat culture. Vilani-built cities
were razed to the ground and the land was rejuvenated
and rehabilitated to its original conditions. Where huge
swathes of rhala tree forests had been destroyed
to make way for cities, new trees were planted. The
return of the rhala forests saw the return of the native
ecologies and the Suerrat went back to living amongst
the trees as their ancestors once did.
In -2219, the Ziru Sirka were no longer able to
resist the continuous confrontations with the Terran
Confederation and her allies and declared their
surrender. The news of the fall of the Ziru Sirka was
met with joyous celebrations by the Suerrat but their joy
soon mellowed when they discovered they had traded
one overlord for another – the new Rule of Man.

THE RAMSHACKLE EMPIRE
The Terrans proved far more relaxed in their
oversight of the Suerrat than the Vilani. The Suerrat
were permitted their own customs and traditions, and
trade continued with their interstellar neighbours.
The lack of experience in overseeing worlds shown
by the Terran governors provided opportunities for
Suerrat advisors to offer guidance in how they were
ruled. In fact, the Terran governors were glad of the
assistance they provided.
Unlike many of the worlds in the Ramshackle Empire,
most Suerrat planets prospered during this period.
Once the local governors realised the benefits of
their oversight obtained from native advisors, they
were happy to allow them as much autonomy as they
needed to govern themselves short of independence
from the Rule of Man.

The collapse of the Rule of Man did not occur all
at once but by -1776, after just over 400 years, the
empire was no more and its member worlds were
left to fend for themselves. Shortly after the fall, the
Suerrat restored their old republic government and
worked hard to return economic security to their
sphere of control. Suerrat traders ventured out beyond
the borders of the republic and assisted in maintaining
ties to the greater interstellar community.
At first, the Suerrat Republic stood as a shining
beacon in the darkness of the long night – a source of
advanced technology, food and medicine. For many
worlds in the area the Suerrat were the only thing
standing between sustaining what they had and a
collapse to barbarism, or worse.
Despite the Suerrat’s best efforts, the lack of broader
interstellar trade began to exact a horrible price on
the former worlds of the Ramshackle Empire. Science
and technology regressed gradually at first but then
with alarming acceleration. Worlds found they no
longer had the capacity to manufacture advanced
technology, forcing them to rely on more primitive
options. With the loss of knowledge came the inability
to maintain what technology remained. The Suerrat
turned to cannibalising parts from broken down ships
to repair others which were still functional. Slowly,
one-by-one, the worlds of the Suerrat Republic forgot
the knowledge of the jump drive.
All was not lost however. Despite the drop in
technology, the Suerrat still had the ability to build
slowboats, just as their ancestors did. As the broader
reach of faster-than-light travel diminished, the
enormous Suerrat slowboats again began plying
the space between stars. The Suerrat Republic had
dwindled but remained a faint glimmering hope in the
darkness of the Long Night.
By -163, the technology in the Suerrat Republic had
stabilised at an average of TL8 and on some worlds
even began to improve slowly. Interstellar trade,
while painfully slow compared to centuries earlier,
still prevented some knowledge and technology from
regressing too far. In the outskirts of the Ilelish system,
an experimental accident led to the rediscovery of jump
technology. This monumental event heralded the return
of faster-than-light travel to the Republic. Starships
reached out from Ilelish spreading the reacquired
knowledge to all the worlds of the Republic, seeing a
rapid increase in economic growth and prosperity.

Suerrat History

It was only a matter of time before the poor
governance administered in other sectors of the Rule
of Man was felt in Ilelish. Poor administration led to
economic downturn, recession and finally depression.
Inflation soared, making even the cheapest products
outrageously expensive. Suerrat worlds which required
interstellar trade to feed their populace found the price
of importing food too expensive. Widespread famine
soon followed. Interstellar trade slowed, imperceptibly
at first, but soon it was impossible to overlook. Word
reached the Suerrat worlds of Terran governors being
recalled from the frontiers to the core of the empire,
leaving those worlds to fend for themselves. It was
clear the Rule of Man was crumbling.

THE LONG NIGHT

43

