T

Expeditions beyond the boundaries of the Republic
discovered what had once been previously advanced
worlds were now populated by little more than warring
barbaric tribes. On some worlds, populations had
died out completely. On other worlds, the Suerrat
were greeted with open arms, the populace eager to
recommence trade and share technology. The Suerrat
were content in sharing their knowledge of the jump
drive amongst themselves but were hesitant with
others. They remembered the yoke of control they had
been subjected to in the past and were not about to
provide the potential means to a return of such. Like
the Vilani had restricted knowledge of jump-2 to others,
the Suerrat kept the jump drive to themselves.

THE THIRD IMPERIUM

Suerrat History

Unknown to the Suerrat, two sectors away in the
Core, Cleon I founded the Third Imperium and
took the Iridium Throne. With strong leadership the
Imperium grew rapidly and in 70, first contact was
made with the Suerrat Republic. The representatives
of the Third Imperium came bearing gifts and
promising more if the Suerrat would join them. The
coming of the Third Imperium was greeted with
reservation by the independent-minded Suerrat.
Some welcomed the new opportunities for travel,
trade and commerce, while others feared a return to
the oppression of the Ziru Sirka.

44

Initial talks between the two polities proceeded for a
decade, with no ground given – the Suerrat Republic
was not prepared to sacrifice its sovereignty to the
Imperium and the Imperium were not content to
allow an uncontrolled polity within its borders. Late
in the year 80, talks broke down. In 81, the Third
Imperium founded the Domain of Ilelish and launched
a pacification campaign to bring the Republic into its
fold. Admiral Jahid Diinsakhar and Archduchess Arda
Bukdikam led the campaign, the former commanded
the combat forces whilst the latter was in overall
control of the new domain. Together, the two made a
formidable force.
The Ilelish Pacification Campaign lasted 14 years.
Apart from the Suerrat Republic, the remainder of the
domain fell easily to the Third Imperium. Most of the
region was fragmented and disorganised as a result of
the Long Night, so little resistance was offered. In fact,
many worlds welcomed the successor to the Rule of
Man. By 96, only the Suerrat Republic stood against
the Third Imperium claiming the entire domain.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Despite being enemies, Admiral Diinsakhar could not
help but be impressed by the organisation and tactics
of the Suerrat opposition. Even with inferior forces, the
Suerrat were able to present reasonable resistance
to the Imperial Fleet. Despite their tenacity, Suerrat
forces ultimately proved no match for the Third
Imperium. In 105, after suffering considerable losses,
the Suerrat Republic sued for peace. Talks concluded
quickly with the dissolution of the Suerrat Republic
and the admission of worlds into the Imperium.
Such was the respect the Third Imperium held for
the organisation of the now defunct republic, Ilelish
was made the capital of the sector and the Suerrat
diplomat Natiruhker was ennobled and raised to the
position of Ilelish Sector Duke.
Governing an entire sector was no easy task for the
new and inexperienced duke but his diplomatic ties
placed him in a good position to know he needed
to surround himself with people he could rely on.
Natiruhker’s calm demeanour and ambassadorial
outlook ensured a prosperous reign and secured the
ducal seat for his family for generations to come.

THE ILELISH REVOLT

Over the next 400 years, the Suerrat flourished. Many
emigrated far from the borders of the old republic,
settling as far away as the Solomani Rim and the
Domain of Gateway. Suerrat merchants traded far
and wide, bringing advanced Suerrat biological and
pharmaceutical products to the Imperium. New Suerrat
colonies were established, often on worlds other
species disregarded as inhospitable and uninhabitable.
These worlds were quickly subjected to Suerrat
terraforming techniques which would, in decades or
centuries, make them habitable and heavily populated,
bringing them firmly within Suerrat control.
The Imperium continued its outward expansion,
concentrating on increasing the number of worlds
under its authority. As expanding its frontiers was the
Imperium’s highest priority, meeting the needs of its
member worlds fell somewhat lower on the list. Neglect
soon led to economic depression as funds were
channelled into the expansion effort.
After decades of neglect, the high population
worlds of the Ilelish sector – led by Ilelish – began
negotiations in 399 with the central Imperial
government for the establishment of an autonomous
region in the sector. The population centres uniformly
felt greater control over their interstellar trade was

R

