the key to profitability. Emperor Martin III refused.
Although the precedent of the League of Antares
existed, Martin III and his advisers saw no pressing
need to relinquish Imperial authority to relieve
economic depression within the empire.

geneered the Jonkeereen, a new human subspecies –
one which would be adapted to the desert environment.
Ironically, the result would be a species of humans
at least as alienated as the Suerrat and possibly as
rebellious, if recent events are any indication.

In 418, radical separatists took control of the Ilelish
government and declared the world’s independence
from the Imperium. The separatists encouraged other
worlds in the area to join them in independence. Within
a year, 12 other high population worlds joined. By 420,
the revolt had spread to six subsectors.

In 637 the Suerrat accepted they were no match for
the might of the Imperium. They abandoned their
terraforming of desert worlds as a direct result of the
success of the Jonkeereen Project.

Martin III acted by imposing a blockade around the
insurgent territory. Squadrons were mobilised from
throughout the Imperium in order to fill the siege lines.
As the noose drew tighter, the density of ships in the
line increased. As each world fell to the siege, the
inevitability of Imperial victory became stronger.
The Imperium was patient in its campaign. It
minimised its losses by avoiding confrontations. At
the same time, its overwhelming fleet force made
confrontations rare. Instead, the revolt was slowly
and carefully ground down.
The last world to fall was Ilelish itself. When it did,
after issuing a demand for unconditional surrender
in 435 which went unfulfilled, the Imperium
destroyed the starport and began the evacuation of
all populations in the lush equatorial zones before
sterilising the flora and fauna. Almost 700 years
later, the equatorial zone of Ilelish remains a sterile
desert. The capital of the sector was shifted to Dlan
(Ilelish sector 1021), a high population world which
remained loyal to the Imperium throughout the siege.

CHANGED DIRECTIONS

In 671 the former worlds of the Suerrat Republic
made another bid for autonomy by petitioning for the
area to be designated a Suerrat Cultural Region.
The region would encompass the former territory
controlled by the republic and afford the Suerrat a
level of autonomous control.
The Imperial Moot debated the petition, concerned
granting Suerrat worlds any amount of autonomy
would ultimately lead to another attempt at
secession. The debate lasted several years, during
which time Suerrat nobles called in political favours
and secured enough proxy votes to ensure success
when a vote was called. In 673, a motion was finally
moved to vote on the Suerrat Cultural Region and
it was a success. Taking the Moot’s decision into
account, Emperor Zhakirov provisionally granted the
Suerrat their cultural region in 674.
The formation of the Suerrat Cultural Region took
some years to finalise but it saw the creation of the
Suerrat United Worlds Council, the Suerrat Regional
Security Force and the Regional Criminal Police
Organisation. As not all the worlds within the cultural
zone were original members of the old republic
nor had a majority of Suerrat in their population, a
diplomatic program was instituted by the SUWC to
those worlds inviting them to send representatives
to sit on the council. While some accepted the offer
others declined, despite being within the cultural
region’s area and its effects.
Whilst the Suerrat were overjoyed at the small amount
of autonomy granted them, they were ultimately
unsatisfied by the result. News arrived in 730 of the
Geonee’s intention of petitioning Empress Margaret
to create a Geonee Autonomous Zone. Spurred
on by the Geonee, the SUWC formulated a plan to
bring a petition to grant the Suerrat greater freedoms
by making the cultural region in the same manner.
Once again, Suerrat nobles curried the favour of
other Imperial nobles, enticing them to facilitate
the formation of the autonomous zone. Deals were

Suerrat History

The Suerrat were once more members – albeit
somewhat distrusted – of the Imperium. They were
still trying to improve their position among the stars
by colonising any remaining planets in the Ilelish
and Gushemege sectors. One of those was Hillaladi
(Gushemege sector 2438), a desert planet which
had previously been considered worthless due to its
inhospitable climate. The Imperial Moot decided to
oppose this new Suerrat expansion. Rather than using
the techniques of brute force which had quashed the
recent Suerrat insurrection following their sector-wide
rebellion, they instead opted to out-compete the Suerrat
in the colonisation of Hillaladi. To accomplish this, they
realised they could not compete with the Suerrat’s
advanced terraforming techniques. Instead, they

SUERRAT CULTURAL REGION

45

