SUERRAT TRAVELLERS
Suerrat Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers, as detailed in the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

SUERRAT

Suerrat Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR+1, DEX+2, SOC-1.

SUERRAT TRAITS
Suerrat Travellers all possess the following traits.

Suerrat gain 3+ EDU DM background skills as
described in the Traveller Core Rulebook. One of
the background skills must be Athletics 0 due to their
arboreal adaptions.

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION
Suerrat may use the pre-career education options
from the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 16, choosing
university or military academy.

Cold Resistance: Due to their thick coat of hair,
Suerrat are more resistant to cold weather than either
Solomani or Vilani. Any damage from cold they receive
is reduced by 1D. Unfortunately, their hair also makes
them somewhat less tolerant of the heat. The damage
they receive from heat is increased by 1D.

THE DRAFT

Poor Senses: Suerrat eyes are sensitive to bright
lights but are superior in the dark. They suffer a penalty
of DM-1 to all checks requiring vision in light equal to or
greater than normal daylight unless wearing protective
lenses such as sunglasses. In the dark, Suerrat gain a
bonus of DM+1 to all checks requiring vision if there is
some light source, no matter how dim.

Suerrat may enter any career as described in the
Traveller Core Rulebook. Many favour the Entertainer,
Merchant, Scout or Rogue careers. Many also pursue
a Scientist career, specialising in the biological and
environmental sciences. Few Suerrat adopt the Agent,
Marine or Noble careers.

Radiation Resistance: Suerrat have an abundance
of cell and DNA repair proteins to protect them from
the radiation produced by their sun’s increased stellar
activity. Suerrat may ignore the first 50 rads they
receive in all radiation exposure events.

STARTING AGE

Suerrat Travellers begin their careers at 18 years of age.

TITLES
Suerrat use no titles among themselves and generally
reject the use of titles by others. If titles must be used,
they tend to be applied reluctantly or even belligerently.

48

BACKGROUND SKILLS

Suerrat Travellers may submit themselves to the draft
just like any other Traveller.

CAREERS

Regional Criminal Police Organisation: The
Regional Criminal Police Organisation is an
interstellar police organisation available to all Suerrat
Travellers. Other species from the Suerrat Republic
may also enter this career.
Regional Security Force: The Regional Security
Force protects the borders of the Suerrat Cultural
Region from pirates and smugglers. Suerrat may
choose to enter the Regional Security Force. Other
species may also enter the Regional Security Force if
they come from within the Suerrat Cultural Region.

