Careers Table
Career
Regional Criminal
and Police
Organisation

Regional Security
Force

Assignment

Qualification

Survival

Advancement

Support

END 5+

EDU 7+

Analysis

INT 7+

INT 7+

Communication

END 5+

EDU 7+

Investigator

INT 7+

INT 5+

Field

END 6+

INT 6+

Special Operations

STR 6+

EDU 6+

INT 6+

INT 6+

AGEING
Suerrat ageing is the same as standard. They
commence ageing rolls at 34 (at the end of their
fourth term). Ageing rolls gain DM+1 in addition to
any other modifiers applied.

SUERRAT LIFE EVENTS
Suerrat have similar life events to other humans. Use
the Life Events table in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

MUSTERING OUT
Suerrat Travellers use the mustering out system as
detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

ROLEPLAYING SUERRAT

As a result of living in highly crowded cities, Suerrat
are almost obsessively polite and will actively prevent
friction or insult. They will allow others to go before
them, ensure others are let into queues before them,
allow others to enter doors before them and so on. If
a misunderstanding does occur, Suerrat will apologise
first, humbly and sincerely, even if it is not their fault.
In situations where friction develops, Suerrat will go
to great measures to smooth things over, even acting
as diplomats or mediators to assist others in living
harmoniously and cooperatively.

Suerrat deeply love the natural world and will often
surround themselves with as much nature as they
can. Even in the limited space of a starship, their
quarters will house numerous plants and even a
small menagerie of pets. Suerrat will volunteer
to be the caretaker of any shipboard plants or
animals. They champion the preservation of natural
environments and fight – peacefully at first but with
greater and greater violence if peaceful measures are
unsuccessful – to protect endangered species.
Suerrat love novelty. Nothing brings a smile to
Suerrat faces as much as a discovery, novel
experience or new find. Others often find Suerrat
love of novelty both somewhat childlike and at the
same time disarmingly charming. Suerrat will always
be on the lookout for something new and exciting to
attract their attention. This can lead to some being
flighty and lacking concentration, while with others
it leads to them becoming obsessed with their new
novelty until they have studied it completely if it is
an object or subject, or work at it constantly until it is
fully completed if it is a task. Sometimes, Travellers
may have to find something new about an old task to
draw a Suerrat’s attention but once they gain it they
will have it for as long as needed.

Suerrat Travellers

Suerrat are very friendly and cooperative. Suerrat will
often be the first to greet strangers and if it appears
someone needs assistance they will be the first to offer
it. Their friendly nature leads to their need to feel they
belong. Family is important to Suerrat and if they do
not have any they are likely to view Travellers as their
surrogate family and act accordingly.

While cooperative and peaceful, Suerrat value their
way of life highly. If threatened, they will try to resolve
the situation peacefully, making concessions and
backing down to ensure things do not get heated.
However, if these tactics do not work, they will defend
themselves and their way of life ruthlessly. This makes
them unsuitable for following orders they are opposed
to, or which will prove dangerous to them or those
they love. They would rather throw down arms than
compromise these principles.

49

