THE ZA'TACHK
The Za’tachk – Za’tachkosapiens Loza’tchis –
were the first alien sophont species the Hivers
encountered. They share many characteristics of the
Hivers, such as pacifism and cooperation. However,
it is uncertain whether this is due to early contact and
thus being able to be manipulated for an extended
period or just an accident. Outside analysis leans
toward a combination of both explanations. While
sharing many characteristics with Hivers, they differ
in being somewhat timid and lacking individual
initiative and curiosity.
The Hiver put the Za’tachk natural tendency towards
bureaucracy and organisation to good use and they
are the Federation’s premier administrators. They can
be found on Hiver merchant ships acting as pursers,
accountants, bookkeepers and so forth. Although other
species also serve in these capacities, Za’tachk are
favoured for such work when available and naturally
gravitate towards these positions.

PHYSIOLOGY

Za’tachk are a quadrupedal, bilaterally symmetrical
species. Proto-Za’tachk evolved as brachiators
which rarely ventured to the ground. This led them
to use both the fore and rear limbs equally well
for movement and grasping. As adults, they are
approximately the same size as mature Hivers and
weigh roughly the same. Their skin is entirely hairless
and has a rough texture on the dorsal surface and
a smooth texture on the ventral. Za’tachk skin is
deep auburn, with shades of black on the limbs and
golden brown on the face, the colouring darker on the
dorsal surfaces. Natural chromophores in their skin
cause their colouration to fade to white during winter.
Za’tachk skin pigments have also been affected by
UV radiation, with those native to more tropical climes
having developed darker tones to protect them from
UV damage, while those coming from colder climates
have a lighter skin tone to absorb more UV light.
Za’tachk are heterothermic, meaning they can vary
between self-regulating their body temperature or
allowing the surrounding environment to affect it. When
the external temperature suits Za’tachk comfort, their
bodies switch from generating heat to allowing the

70

exterior temperature to regulate body heat. This serves
to reduce their energy requirements. When the external
temperature drops below suitability, their body again
begins generating heat to maintain metabolism.
The species’ metabolism switches to external
temperature regulation when they sleep, which causes
them to enter into a torpor-like state. Sleeping Za’tachk
can be difficult to rouse and they tend to be somewhat
sluggish until their metabolism switches to internal
temperature regulation and their body temperature
rises. Za’tachk who wake normally do not suffer from
sluggishness, as their body has already changed to
internal temperature regulation before they wake.
Za’tachk have a closed respiratory and cardiovascular
system. They inspire oxygen and expire carbon dioxide.
Za’tachk blood is green due to their oxygen-carrying
molecule being similar to chloroquine, which is light
green when deoxygenated and darker green when
oxygenated. Structurally, the molecule is similar to
haemoglobin as it has an iron atom at its centre. Unlike
haemoglobin, it is not found in Za’tachk cells but floats
in the blood plasma analogue.
This species has an internal skeletal system
composed primarily of calcium. The skeleton is
a short, relatively inflexible spine attached to two
complex structures resembling a shoulder and hip
girdle combination. Between these complex structures
is a short ribcage which protects the vital internal
organs. A short neck leads to the skull.
The hip/shoulders have ball-shaped processes which
fit into a cup-shaped socket in the proximal limb bone.
A complex capsule of ligaments, tendons and muscle
allow the limb to rotate 360 degrees. While the joints
initially appear unstable, the thick muscles and tendons
protect the joints from dislocation. In healthy Za’tachk,
limb dislocation is almost unheard of and is considered
an affliction associated with age.
Each limb has four joints analogous to the shoulder,
elbow, secondary elbow and wrist. Each joint is highly
flexible and able to rotate a full 360 degrees and flex
both forwards, backwards and to the sides. Once

