a highly beneficial trait when the Za’tachk were still
a brachiating species, this flexibility does come at
the price of joint stability. It can occasionally cause
problems such as dislocations, sprains and strains.
At the end of each limb is a manipulator, which can
serve equally well to support locomotion or fine
manipulation. The manipulator possesses six fingers
comprised of four joints each. The fingers are equally
spaced around the manipulator so that each finger
is opposable. When the manipulator is used for
locomotion, it is closed into a fist so that the Za’tachk
effectively walks on its knuckles.
Za’tachk are most comfortable on all fours. They
prefer to walk in a quadrupedal stance unless carrying
something and even then will store the object being
held in a pouch or backpack, if possible, to free all
their limbs for locomotion. Despite this preference,
Za’tachk are more than capable of operating bipedally
if the situation requires it.

The skull is connected by another ball and socket
joint but due to mechanical limitations, the joint is not
as flexible as those found on the limbs. The skull is
somewhat triangular, broader near the neck and narrow
towards the jaws. Four protected orbits holding the
eyes are on either side of the head, one pair above the
other and one on either side of the jaw. Za’tachk have
no teeth. Instead, within their mouth they have bony
plates in the upper and lower jaw resembling a beak.
At the front of the jaw, the plate is sharp for cutting
and tearing, while at the back, it broadens to allow
mastication. Za’tachk do not possess a tongue.
The Za’tachk brain is doughnut-shaped and sits
vertically in the skull. The optical nerve centres
are located at the front of the brain, while the
language centre sits within the inner ring. The
brain area responsible for pattern recognition is
disproportionally large, which accounts for Za’tachks’
remarkable organisational ability. Unlike the human
brain, the Za’tachk brain is not separated into two
hemispheres; it is a single organ without a right or
left differential in function.

The Za’tachk
71

