T

Internally, the majority of Za’tachk organs are
contained within the ribcage. They possess a single,
three-chambered heart located centrally within
the body. Blood is pumped from the two upper
chambers into the pulmonary system, where the
blood is oxygenated, and then to the rest of the body.
Deoxygenated blood is returned to the lungs, where
waste chemicals are removed before returning to the
large lower heart chamber.
Breathing is performed through nasal openings in
the chest just below the throat. The nasal openings
lead directly to a tracheal system that delivers air
into the lungs. The lungs are a spherical organ
surrounding the heart and deliver oxygen directly via
an intricate tracheal system.

The Za’tachk

Za’tachk have a larynx but do not possess vocal
cords. Instead, they have an organ similar to Terran
birds called a syrinx within their trachea, which can
generate sounds. Specialised sets of syringeal
muscles control the movement of the syrinx, including
tension on the membranes. Za’tachk use different
degrees of tension produced by the syringeal muscles
to achieve variety in sounds and tones. Vocalisation
is performed through the nostrils, surrounded by a
complex muscle structure that allows them to alter
their shape and hence the sound emitted. They can
produce a far greater octave range than humans.
Their voices are melodious and androgynous.

72

The digestive system consists of an oesophagus that
passes through the central brain cavity and leads to
an upper stomach used to digest animal proteins and
simple nutrients. Plant fibres and other difficult-to-digest
nutrients are passed to a second stomach for digestion.
The second stomach contains bacteria and other
gut flora, which help break down plant matter before
passing the chime back into the upper stomach to be
passed through to the intestine analogues. The chime
travels through the intestines, removing nutrients and
fluids before the remains are passed to the colon and
eliminated through a cloaca on the body’s underside.
Za’tachk can convey a vast range of subtle messages
when used in conjunction with their spoken language.
Along with their spoken language, Za’tachk have
several glands around their cloaca, which secrete
pheromones. The pheromones convey various physical
and emotional states experienced by Za’tachk; they

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

are detected by specialised organs within the lining of
the mouth and nasal passages, which can differentiate
between the type and quantity. Za’tachk constantly emit
pheromones, giving them a pleasant body odour, which
some say resembles ylang-ylang.
Za’tachk senses are mainly analogous to human
senses. They hear through two ear openings
on each side of the skull covered by tympanic
membranes. Both smell and taste are as acute as a
human, although the chemoreceptors in their nasal
passages are sensitive to the pheromones used for
communication. Scent can be detected through the
nasal cavities and the mouth; a Za’tachk trying to
catch a smell will hold its mouth open in a wide grin.
The tastebuds in their upper and lower jaw lining are
more attuned to bitter flavours than sweet ones.
Za’tachk eyes are large and more sensitive along the
infrared spectrum to adequately see under the light
of their home planet’s sun, a K2 V red dwarf. This
adaption makes Za’tachk particularly sensitive to bright
light but with excellent vision in the dark.
Za’tachk have three sexes and are sexually dimorphic.
They have a complex and flexible reproductive
pattern – with two subsidiary sexes: the ‘oygui’ scout
and the ‘oysgui’ homesteader. Scouts average 1.3
metres from the ground to the upraised head and
weigh approximately 140 kilograms. The homesteader
averages 1.3 metres from the floor to the top of their
upraised head and only weighs around 130 kilograms.
The third sex, the ‘ohyugua’ matriarch, stands on
average 1.5 metres from the ground to the top of their
upraised head and weighs 145 kilograms. Viewing the
nature of the three sexes in the context of social insects
rather than ‘male’ and ‘female’ is helpful. The scouts
are analogous to soldier ants, the homesteaders to
worker ants and the matriarchs to queens. Unlike ants,
the soldiers are ‘male’ because they cannot gestate
young, while the workers and queens are ‘female’.
Each sex has reproductive organs located within the
cloaca. Mating is achieved by the Za’tachk pressing
their bellies together so their cloacas ‘kiss’. Whilst
embraced in a cloacal kiss, scouts transfer gametes
to either of their partners and homesteaders may
receive gametes from a scout or transfer gametes to a
matriarch partner. In the exchange of gametes, many
are exchanged and fertilised. The gametes travel to
the uterus, where they try to attach to the uterine wall.
Only one gamete will be successful, after which a

R

