hormonal change occurs in the uterine lining to prevent
further gametes from implanting. Gametes that do not
successfully implant are stored in an organ beside
the uterus, enter metabolic suspension and may be
released later to produce more offspring.
Matriarchs, scouts and homesteaders all carry
triploid genes, which can fuse in either diploid – two
gametes fusing – or triploid – three gametes fusing –
fashion. However, diploid offspring are sterile mules.
Thus, a scout and homesteader could mate but will
only produce a sterile version of either sex. Likewise,
a matriarch could mate with a scout or homesteader
in a diploid coupling but the results would be sterile
scouts or homesteaders.
Both matriarchs and homesteaders can control the
sex of their young. Impregnated homesteaders give
birth to a homesteader or scout after six months
of gestation. Matriarchs can also give birth to a
homesteader or scout simultaneously. Matriarchs are
the only sex that can produce young matriarchs, which
are gestated for 12 months. Matriarch young are
always the result of triploid mating.
Za’tachk only mate for reproductive purposes when the
right pheromones are produced. All Za’tachk produce
pheromones that influence when fertile community
members produce mature gametes based on the
group’s needs. This had the effect of controlling the
population of primitive groups and controlling the
fertility of any young produced.
Single births are the norm in Za’tachk, although twins
are not unheard of and triplets are rare. In all cases
of multiple births, the young will result from a fertilised
gamete’s initial cell division splitting completely into
two or three separate zygotes instead of remaining as
a single ball of cells. This results in the young of such
occurrences being identical.

LIFESPAN
Za’tachk young are born almost entirely helpless
and require intense care from their parents for the
first several years. While all three Za’tachk sexes
can nurse young, this task is usually reserved for the
homesteaders except for a young matriarch, who is
nursed only by their matriarch mother.

Once scouts and homesteaders reach the age of three,
they begin their formal education. Formal institutions
dedicated to the education of youngsters are
commonplace in Za’tachk communities. Infertile scouts
and homesteaders usually complete their education
at 10, after which they enter the workforce. It is rare
for an infertile scout or homesteader to pursue further
education, such as college or university.
Fertile scouts and homesteaders also complete their
primary education at 10. Unlike their infertile nest
mates, fertile scouts and homesteaders frequently
pursue advanced education at college or university.
Those who head directly into the workforce after
primary education often obtain further education
through their line of work.
Young Matriarchs do not begin their primary
education until they are five, completed by the time
they are 13 years old. From there, young matriarchs
are expected to pursue advanced education at a
college or university to gain the skills necessary for
their future roles as society’s leaders. It is highly
unheard of for a young matriarch to forgo advanced
education, which the community sees as laziness
and lacking leadership potential.
The scout and homesteader young routinely remain
in parental care until they reach the age of 10 years.
Matriarchs remain in parental care until they are
15 years old.
Fertile scouts and homesteaders are in their prime from
10 to 35. After, they age rapidly and rarely live beyond
the age of 50. Infertile scout and homesteader lives are
tragically short, being in their prime from 10 to 20 and
rapidly ageing before dying at around 30. Matriarchs
are considered in their prime from 15 to 60 and can
live beyond 100. As in other species, anagathics can
significantly lengthen this lifespan.

The Za’tachk

All three sexes can feed the young. They have pseudomammary organs on their underside, which secrete a
nourishing semi-liquid onto their belly skin.

Young are typically weaned at the age of two years
old. At this point, the young can walk and have begun
to speak individual words and string them into simple
sentences. They are introduced to solid foods and,
within another year, the young have gained a small
level of independence.

73

