T

DIET

Za’tachk are omnivores. They enjoy many foods
but prefer plant-based foods over animal proteins.
Most meals consist primarily of plants with a small
proportion of animal protein derived primarily from
insect analogues, although other forms of protein are
also occasionally enjoyed.
The plant life on Za’tachk is toxic, with the severity
of the toxin varying by plant species, which can be
detected by bitterness in the plant’s flavour. ProtoZa’tachk evolved sensitive bitterness preceptors
in their mouth lining to assist them in discerning
which plants contain the least amount of toxin via
the intensity of their bitterness. To further aid in the
digestion of plant toxins, proto-Za’tachk consumed
clay which lined their stomachs and bound with the
toxins, allowing them to pass through the digestive
system and be eliminated safely.
Young Za’tachk are particularly vulnerable to plant
toxins, so their diet is restricted to the least toxic plants
in their early years. Clay forms a substantial part of
their diet to combat the ingested toxicity.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Modern Za’tachk have the processing technology to
remove toxins from plant matter before consumption.
Despite this, they prefer not to eat such heavily
processed foods and continue to rely on consuming clay.
Clay is most often consumed mixed with a liquid
to form viscous mud. Common fluids used as a
mixer include water, milk and, occasionally, animal
blood. The drink can be served flavoured or natural,
depending on the liquid the clay is mixed with, and
drunk either warm or cold.
Insect analogues are the favoured form of animal
protein eaten by Za’tachk. They also enjoy eggs, fish
and milk produced by some animals. These foods
comprise approximately 20% of the Za’tachk diet.
Unlike many sophonts, Za’tachk have no rituals around
the consumption of food. There are no standard
mealtimes, nor is there a tendency to gather together
with the sole intention of eating. Instead, Za’tachk graze
throughout the day, eating when hungry, regardless of
where they are and what they are doing. To the outside
observer, Za’tachk seem to be constantly eating.
This has led to a culture where food is always
available. Za’tachk always carry food with them as
a matter of course and every Za’tachk gathering will
include a selection of foods to graze upon, regardless
of the formality of the gathering.

PSYCHOLOGY

The Za’tachk

In many ways, Za’tachk share some of the psychological
traits of Hivers but generally not to as great an extent.
Za’tachk are non-aggressive, pacifistic and highly
cooperative. These traits were present in the Za’tachk
before contact with the Hivers and may have been
exaggerated through Hiver manipulation after contact.

74

Za’tachk will avoid aggression – be it physical,
emotional or mental – if at all possible. As they evolved
from arboreal ancestors, Za’tachk will seek to escape
acts of aggression by achieving higher ground to make
themselves unreachable. ‘Higher ground’ may not
necessarily mean physically climbing a tree or hill –
although those actions are certainly warranted in the
case of physical aggression – but also includes such
things as seeking a higher moral ground, turning to
more accepted and proven theories, or falling back on
the way things have always been done.

R

