Za’tachk who are unable to reach higher ground in
the face of aggression will act defensively to protect
the most vulnerable parts of their body by assuming
a position known as ‘atucucundrunia’ – dropping to
the ground, tucking their limbs and head under their
body and remaining in that position until the threat
or danger has passed. In extreme peril, retreating to
this position may also be accompanied by a state of
catatonia, where the Za’tachk cannot be communicated
or reasoned with until they feel safe.
This lack of aggression also manifests in Za’tachk lack
of initiative and curiosity. Za’tachk find both initiative and
curiosity to be hazardous behaviours that could easily
lead to dangerous situations. This lack of enterprise is
not voluntary but is a deep-seated psychological trait.
Za’tachk are not known for any significant scientific
advances, social reformation or great endeavours.
The psychological desire to avoid aggression
and danger are so great in Za’tachk that society
considers those who show less aversion to conflict
or dangerous situations mentally unwell. These
individuals are looked upon with pity. As Za’tachk
take particular care of whom amongst them
reproduces, they are also prohibited from breeding.
Those who show the least aversion, or worse, seek
out conflict, are confined to institutions for the insane
where they will pose no risk to themselves or others.
Despite this, Za’tachk are not above utilising these
individuals when dealing with dangerous situations
deemed too risky for sane members of society.

Like the Hivers they resemble in many ways, the
Za’tachk are very alien to a human perspective. While
individual Za’tachk are individual sophonts, their
psychology and social behaviour is highly structured
and stylised, making them frequently appear to
humans as programmed automatons rather than
independent individual sophonts.

Za’tachk are also psychologically limited by their
sex concerning their positions within the community.
Matriarchs are the leaders and decision-makers.
Scouts and homesteaders specialise in the daily
support of the community. Scout roles are limited to
exploration, hunting, defence, policing and heavy
labour. Homesteader roles are limited to administration,
education, child-rearing, crafts, management and the
distribution of essential goods and services. Za’tachk
appear to be unable to deviate from their sexually
defined roles. Forcing a Za’tachk into positions or to
behave beyond their sexually defined parameters
causes a great deal of stress and discomfort and may
more than likely lead to atucucundrunia.

SOCIETY

Their psychology heavily influences Za’tachk society.
Given their obsession with order, it naturally follows
that their society is highly structured, with roles and
responsibilities designated by both sex and fertility.

MATRIARCHY
Za’tachk society is singularly matriarchal in nature.
The matriarchs are the centre of society and the
community’s leaders. The base group structure is
always the same. Leading the system is a singular or
council of fertile matriarchs. Below them are a group of
courtiers of favoured fertile scouts and homesteaders
of the fertile matriarchs. Below the courtiers are other
fertile scouts and homesteaders, and the final rung in
the hierarchy is the scout and homesteader mules.
Older matriarchs who are beyond the age of
reproduction also participate in the role of
leadership. They represent an elite faction of leaders
with highly respected and admired knowledge and
wisdom. It is not unusual to find the highest levels
of leadership in Za’tachk communities to be led by a
council of these older matriarchs.

The Za’tachk

Za’tachk have never warred amongst themselves,
as their lack of aggression has led to a naturally
pacifistic mindset. When unknown groups of Za’tachk
encountered each other, it was natural for the more
senior matriarch from the groups to automatically
assume leadership of both. Any subordinate queens
would automatically and instinctually accept the new
leader, then rearrange their positions within the new
structure based on seniority.

This tendency is apparent in the almost slavish
obedience the scouts and homesteaders have
towards the wishes and desires of matriarchs. Scouts
and homesteaders are psychologically unable to
disobey the commands of a matriarch. To do so
will most often result in the scout or homesteader
retreating into atucucundrunia to combat the sense
of internal turmoil they feel. In the case of scouts
or homesteaders receiving conflicting orders from
different matriarchs, they will follow the orders of the
most senior matriarch or the one with whom they
have the closest familial relationship.

75

