T

This rigid structure is repeated throughout Za’tachk
society, from planetary civilisations to the smallest
businesses and community groups. Matriarchs
will always lead. Junior matriarchs support senior
matriarchs. Matriarchs will always lead homesteaders
and scouts and fertile sexes will always lead mules.
This structure is one that Za’tachk are genetically
predisposed to and cannot deviate from without
significant stress and psychological discomfort.
Those Za’tachk who work away from their fellows
will always seek to discover who is superior and
subordinate to them so they know precisely where
they fit into the social hierarchy.
This social structure tends to Za’tachk organisations
being controlled, operated and staffed by individuals
who are related to each other in some way.

NESTS
Za’tachk do not have the same concept of family
as many other sophonts. Za’tachk have no concept
of marriage and their notion of familial connections
are atypical. Whether their biological mother is a
homesteader or matriarch, Za’tachk view their mother
as the most senior related matriarch in the community.
This leads to entire communities considering one of
its leading matriarchs as their mother. This is not an
erroneous or fanciful belief; as Za’tachk communities
grow, it is most likely that all its members are the
descendants of the leading matriarchs.

The Za’tachk

A Za’tachk group, called a ‘nest’, always consists of at
least one mature matriarch, a minimum of one fertile
scout and homesteader, and any unattached young
produced. This is the minimum number for a nest and
will often include many more individuals. Any infertile
young produced by the family tend to remain with the
family and rarely strike out independently.

76

Young fertile scouts and homesteaders who have
reached adulthood are ready to leave the nest and
join another. Young matriarchs take longer to mature.
When she does, she produces pheromones which
announce to the community that she is receptive
to receiving mates. In the past, this resulted in a
receptive matriarch being approached by a plethora of
suitors. The choice of appropriate suitors was as much
a matter of individual taste as it was of pheromonal
compatibility. A fertile matriarch may takes as many
mating partners as she likes. Successful scouts and
homesteaders remained with the matriarch, while
unsuccessful suitors returned to their home nests.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

While Za’tachk can and do feel romantic love, they
believe it has no place in the formation of breeding
groups. Love is reserved for the infertile and the young.
Individuals may remain within the relationship for as
long as they like but must register their unattached
status if they leave it.
Suiters offer small bright, gaudy gifts and trinkets to a
receptive matriarch to impress her. The offerings are
ritualistically presented to the matriarch in a manner
very reminiscent of the courtship dances of some Terran
birds. While it appears the matriarch chooses suitors
whose gifts please her the most, in reality, the choice
is heavily influenced by which suiters’ pheromones that
resonate most strongly in the matriarch.
Before the development of cities, the reproduction rate
within Za’tachk communities was controlled by the
pheromones given off by all fertile members of society.
The exact mechanism by which this operates is still
largely unknown and unconsciously initiated by the
fertile community. It is suspected to be a combination
of population pressures, the requirements of the
community and the amount of work available. Personal
desire to reproduce also has some bearing on the
mechanism but how much is not definitively known.
There have been circumstances where Za’tachk have
successfully reproduced through the sheer desire to do
so but this is a rare exception to the norm and is seen
as somewhat obscene by the larger community.
As settlements grew and population pressures swelled,
reliance on mating pheromones proved too chaotic,
leading to explosive overpopulation. This led to the
establishment of councils or committees to oversee
the rate of reproduction and which matched suitable
Za’tachk with each other as well as monitoring and
recording the number of Za’tachk in the community.
When an increase in population was required, the
committees issued the authority to reproduce to
selected nests. While the pheromones produced by
the fertile community members still affect the need to
reproduce subconsciously, doing so without authority
provided by the government is illegal.
This arrangement has continued in modern Za’tachk
communities. The Bureau of Population keeps a
census of all Za’tachk and their bloodlines and ensures
the best-matched Za’tachk are brought together into
nests and issues reproduction authority. Through
this bureaucratic process, all Za’tachk communities
have a similar population breakdown of 60% infertile
scouts and homesteaders, 30% fertile scouts and
homesteaders and 10% matriarchs.

R

