STRUCTURE
Structure is fundamental to the Za’tachk. Their
biology-based society makes Za’tachk predisposed
to strong organisation and laws. Za’tachk have laws
for everything ranging from how the government is
operated down to the naming conventions of the young.
Disorganisation, untidiness and chaos are anathema
to Za’tachk. Such things are not just to be avoided;
they are not tolerated. Every Za’tachk knows
precisely where they stand in society, what they
are expected to do and how they will do it. Za’tachk
are masters of micromanagement and see it as a
character strength rather than a flaw.
Homesteaders and matriarchs are the most adept in
organisation and structure, forming the bulk of the Hive
Federation’s famed Za’tachk bureaucrats. As the Hivers
feel this is a highly desirable trait in a subordinate, the
Federation publicly admires the Za’tachk.

PACIFISM

Pacifism is a natural outgrowth of Za’tachk timidity.
Za’tachk pacifism and timidity should not be confused
with a refusal to defend themselves – Za’tachk are
more than capable of such actions as long as it is safe
for them to do so. This apparent contradiction can be
explained by looking at how primitive Za’tachk reacted
when confronted by violence.

Hiver manipulation in the past has reduced the
Za’tachk tendency to eliminate all threats before they
could pose a problem. Modern Za’tachk still deal
with threatening situations proactively but they prefer
peaceful means, such as diplomacy, relocation and

It is not surprising that some cultures view Za’tachk
pacifism as cowardice. Za’tachk would argue that it
is entirely logical, in fact philanthropic, to eliminate a
potential threat before it can pose any danger to the
individual or the community at large.

BELIEFS

Za’tachk are an interesting species, mostly monolithic
in their beliefs, customs and worldview. Where other
sophonts will have a range of views shared by their
populace and individuals may differ significantly from
the norm, the same cannot be said of the Za’tachk.
The Za’tachk have no religious beliefs and do not
practice the worship of ancestors or supernatural
entities. They do not believe in an afterlife but feel
their essence continues within their offspring and
the community. Instead of a traditional belief system,
their desire for order borders on religious fanaticism.
Disorder is seen not only as contrary to the good of the
community but as unethical and immoral.
Despite their lack of religion or a belief in an afterlife,
Za’tachk practice a form of cannibalism where
they ritually consume the bodies of their deceased
relatives. This ritual, known as ‘Vecwruaki’, is
seen as the deceased individual making one last
contribution to the nest by providing nourishment.
Vecwruaki is a profoundly private affair, practised
only by the deceased’s fellow nest members and is
never discussed with outsiders. To raise the ritual with
Za’tachk is in poor taste and deeply offensive.
The consumption of the deceased individual is a highly
formal rite. Before the consumption begins, the nest
members of the dead step away from their public lives,
forgoing work and social obligation. They spend this
time with their nestmates remembering the deceased
and their contributions to the nest and the community in
a ritual known as ‘paarvecwruaki’, which means ‘Before
Returning’. During this time, it is not unusual for friends
and acquaintances of the deceased to visit the nest
and contribute their memories of them.
While paarvecwruaki is being performed, the
deceased’s body is prepared by individuals known
as ‘dutanskpaarvuaki’ or ‘the shepherds of returning’,
trained in the ritual methods of corpse preparation
passed down from the earliest periods of recorded

The Za’tachk

Za’tachk view height as safety. The first reaction of
a threatened Za’tachk is to flee and retreat to higher
ground, such as a hill or tree. While retreating, they
would release threat and danger pheromones to alert
those around them and to attract scouts who would
act to defend them. If Za’tachk could not retreat to
higher ground or flee, they would protect themselves
by assuming the ‘atucucundrunia’ position. Scouts
would also seek higher ground and attack the source of
the threat with spears or stones from a safe distance,
carefully avoiding direct physical contact. Threats
were dealt with as far from the nest as possible. Scout
groups would be dispatched to patrol nest territory for
threats and dangers to dispatch, thereby protecting the
rest of the community from any potential future risk.
In this manner, the Za’tachk would create a safe and
peaceful environment by eliminating any threat before it
could threaten the individual or the community.

so forth. When all forms of peaceful resolution have
proven ineffectual, Za’tachk will use whatever means
necessary to eliminate the source of the danger in a
safe and long-distance manner.

77

