T

history. Once paarvecwruaki is complete, the
dutanskpaarvuaki guides the nest in consuming the
departed. The sex and the position held by members
of the nest dictate which parts of the corpse are
consumed and in what order. The consumption is
accompanied by traditional chants which extol the
deceased’s virtue and highlight their body’s return to
the nest for the good of their nestmates. Once the
vecruaki is complete, the surviving relatives return to
their everyday lives. The deceased is rarely mentioned
again after vecruaki and when they are, their
cognomen is replaced with the word ‘-vecruakeen’,
meaning ‘One who has returned’.
The closest concept to a religion found among the
Za’tachk is their desire for order brought about by strict
and closely managed organisation. This obsession,
firmly rooted in their psychology, is reinforced in all
young Za’tachk in the nest and through educational
institutions. Other sophonts may find Za’tachk
adherence to order obsessive but it has given Za’tachk
a reputation as the best administrators within the Hive
Federation and perhaps beyond.
Za’tachk believe that every member of their society has
a specified role to play for society to function effectively
and efficiently. Related to their need for order is their
need for industriousness. An individual who does not
fulfil their role or proves to be lacking in industriousness
is seen as a burden upon society.

The Za’tachk

This belief has led to the Za’tachk having a rather
dim view towards the unemployed and supporting
those who are not succeeding. No charitable
foundations help support the poor or the unemployed
among Za’tachk, nor is there a public welfare or
benefits system for those who find themselves out of
work or unemployable.

78

Interestingly, due to the nature of the way they
reproduce, Za’tachk communities rarely have an issue
with people experiencing poverty or unemployment.
Every community member has a productive role to
perform, or a position is found where their services can
be utilised and they can contribute to society.
Za’tachk consider timidity and cowardice to indicate
intelligence and, ultimately, sophoncy. To their way
of thinking, a sentient species would naturally hold
their personal safety of the highest importance, so it
only stands to reason that a sophont species would
be exceedingly timid and wary of threats to their
continued wellbeing.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Similarly, Za’tachk believe bravery is a mental affliction
similar to insanity. Those considered profoundly insane
are seen as a genuine risk to the community. Despite
this viewpoint, those less timid than the average
Za’tachk have a use within the community. They are put
to work in roles that require insanity to be successful.
Due to their psychological makeup, many of those
considered insane belong to the scout sex, as it falls to
them the duties of defence. An insane – read brave –
scout greatly benefits the community. Likewise, those
matriarchs and homesteaders who show bravery are
the ones who are most often employed in roles along
with other species. These are the Za’tachk that aliens
interact with the most.
Za’tachk have a strong connection to the number three.
They believe three is a fortuitous number – it requires
three Za’tachk to mate together to produce fertile
offspring. Three represents stability and continuation,
considered the minimum number of individuals
necessary to give any venture a chance of success.
This belief has extended into all aspects of Za’tachk
life. Three matriarchs head all bureaus, three leaders
lead all businesses except for the very smallest and
all committees have memberships divisible by three.
Even such positions as the captain of a starship, or
the leaders of Za’tachk governments, are held by three
individuals. Each of the three leaders of an organisation
are considered equal and all decisions are made
by reaching a consensus between them. When an
agreement cannot be reached, the wishes of two-thirds
of the triad are taken as the consensus.
Three is such an important number to the Za’tachk that
it can be found almost anywhere within their society.
Buildings are always constructed comprising of levels
in multiples of three, the seats in vehicles are always a
multiple of three, streets always have three lanes, gifts
are always given in threes, their numbering system has
a base of three and diplomatic envoys always consist
of a number divisible by three. Even their insults are
affected by their fascination with the number three.
Wishing an individual to ‘never to amount to three’ is a
grave offence and bestowing less than three gifts on an
individual is a shocking affront.
While multiple births among the Za’tachk are a rarity,
triplets being an almost unheard-of event, the birth
of triplets is seen as highly auspicious. Triplets are
considered both lucky and fortuitous. They are said
to be harbingers of grand events and have great
expectations placed upon them.

R

