GOVERNMENT

Za’tachk worlds, in the vast majority, tend towards
bureaucratic governments with voluminous yet
consistent, helpful and thorough sets of regulations
to be followed. Za’tachk governments control every
aspect of life from birth to death.
The highest level of Za’tachk government is the
Za’tachk Alignment – an interstellar polity within the
Hive Federation. An independent world government
governs most planets within the Alignment. A planet will
often be divided into several Regions, which a regional
governor and her council oversee. Regions are further
broken down into Districts with their own governors and
councils and, finally, Nests with a governor and council.
Each governor reports to the governor above them,
ultimately back to the planetary government, which
report to the Alignment government.
A council of matriarchs heads government, with three
of their number chosen as the figureheads of the
government, known as the Rearmost Secretaries.
Each matriarch is responsible for a portfolio, such as
finance, environment, foreign affairs, internal affairs,
defence and so on. Each matriarch has a staff of
subordinate matriarchs responsible for a department
of their superior’s portfolio. Further rungs within the
government are subdivided down through the rungs
of management and finishing with the workers, who
are generally infertile scouts or homesteaders. Fertile
scouts and homesteaders fill the positions of middle
and low management in the structure.

To enter government service, a Za’tachk must sit
an exam to prove their ability to perform to a high
standard. Successful applicants are then placed in
low-level governmental positions with the possibility of
promotion for those who show promise. This has led to
an education system focusing on schooling students in
the skills required for government service. The number

The number of exams a modern Za’tachk must sit
to enter and advance within governments varies
from planet-to-planet and sometimes from region to
district to sector. Regardless of the number of exams
necessary, the Za’tachk government is no longer
one of hereditary progression but one based on the
merits of the individual.

LAW

Za’tachk seldom intentionally break laws, even
inadvertently, but visitors to their worlds sometimes do.
Therefore, authorities retain small police forces to deal
with such matters. On predominantly Za’tachk worlds,
the police are composed of scouts but often employ
other Federation species on more cosmopolitan worlds.
On Za’tachk worlds, police rarely use lethal weaponry
in their duties. Instead, they use a ‘kaath’ device,
which fires an electrical induction beam that stimulates
the brain’s pleasure centre. The result of being hit
by a kaath is the feeling of instant and total ecstasy,
which sends the target into spasms of uncontrollable
pleasure, rendering them helpless for a brief time.
Za’tachk governments want to be seen as
responsible and trustworthy. The majority of Za’tachk
laws govern how bureaucracies operate, ensuring
there is no corruption and all decisions and actions
taken are transparent. Other laws dictating property
ownership and objects are also clearly codified to
provide transparency.
The most serious laws govern the threat and actual
harm to individuals and groups. Considering Za’tachk
timidity, it is not surprising they hold the life and
wellbeing of the individual in high regard, which
naturally extends to the group.
Za’tachk law assumes an individual is innocent until
proven guilty. They utilise lawyers to defend or prosecute
the accused. Lawyers are highly knowledgeable in the
Za’tachk legal system. Individuals unable to afford a
lawyer are forced to represent themselves. Za’tachk
courts do not tolerate legal trickery in any form and the
use of which draws severe penalties.

The Za’tachk

In the distant past, government positions were kept
within families. Matriarchs would inherit their posts
from their parent or grandparent. As civilisation grew
and spread, this manner of filling governmental roles
proved to not necessarily place the best decisionmakers in positions of power. Obtaining government
positions was altered from inheritance to skill and
qualification to rectify this.

of exams and their difficulty have increased in time,
with commensurate education being provided by the
government to prepare students to enter government
service. This structure has remained largely unchanged
from its inception to the present.

79

