T

Trials are always heard by Matriarchs well versed in
law and do not include a jury – there is no concept
of being judged by your peers among Za’tachk. The
number of matriarchs who hear a case depends on
the severity of the case. A minor infraction may be
heard by a trio of judges, whereas a major case may
have a panel of up to 21 judges. In every case, there
will always be an odd number of judges on a panel. A
simple majority ascertains guilt.
The government dictates punishments depending
on the severity of the crime. Walking in a forbidden
area might bring a small fine, while stealing another’s
possessions may cause some time in internment.
Threatening or causing harm to another brings the
most severe punishments, including lengthy gaol
sentences and forced rehabilitation. Those who
repeatedly threaten or harm others are seen as beyond
rehabilitation and are sentenced to execution which is
performed quickly and painlessly.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE
Za’tachk do not dress for humility – they have no
qualms against nudity. Instead, Za’tachk dress to
decorate themselves as a form of rank display and
self-expression. They will dress in protective clothing
when necessary, however.

The Za’tachk

Clothing commonly comprises a jacket covering the
back but leaving the nostrils at the front of the torso
sides free so the Za’tachk may breathe and talk. Short
stockings covering the upper, lower or entirety of the
limbs and a decorative hat or head covering complete
the ensemble. Jewellery such as bracelets, armbands
and chokers are also standard and are coordinated
with the rest of the outfit. Za’tachk rarely wear
anything to cover their manipulators except to protect
them from dangerous environments.

80

Higher ranking Za’tachk will advertise their position by
the style and expense of their clothing. Za’tachk prefer
their clothing to be simple yet elegant. No differentiation
is given to the clothing worn by any sexes – all sexes
can equally wear any clothing. Materials used are
normally soft and comfortable, with those able to afford
more expensive materials happily doing so. Materials
tend to be brightly coloured and can be of a single
colour or bear simple or complex patterns.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Za’tachk produce many forms of art but all of it is
representational without embellishments or creative
additions. Their paintings, drawings and sculptures
are completely photorealistic, depicting the subject
matter exactly as it was when the composition was
made. While there is no doubting the skill involved in
creating such life-like representations, connoisseurs
in the art world note that Za’tachk visual art lacks
emotion and soul. No artistic movements are found
in developing their craft, except the evolution
towards more realistic styles. An art lover will not
find experimentation in cubism, expressionism,
Impressionism or other forms of artistic styles among
the Za’tachk other than realism. Za’tachk see no point
in art which is not identical to the subject and they do
not understand other species’ non-realistic art styles.
Furthermore, Za’tachk can see the artistic value just as
easily in an exquisitely executed portrait as in an equally
exquisite composition of a city map or a public transport
diagram – a painting of a beautiful landscape holds as
much value to them as a diagram of a subway network
or a reproduction of a superbly organised flowchart.
An aspect of Za’tachk art not found in many other
sophonts’ art is the incorporation of heat emitters in
their work. As Za’tachk vision extends into the infrared
spectrum, for their art to be truly representational,
their art must also convey the heat, or lack thereof,
of the subject at the time of the composition. This
technique was introduced as the Za’tachk had
access to electronics and has continued to develop
to the modern day, where paintings, drawings and
sculptures include hidden heat emitters to engage the
Za’tachk sense of sight fully.
Za’tachk music is also described as rather soulless
by critics. Za’tachk utilise several wind and
percussion instruments in their music but their
compositions are strictly mathematical and follow
long-held traditional structures.
During their evolution, Za’tachk lived in extremely close
proximity to each other and continued to live closely
as their population grew. Za’tachk feel comfortable
and safe in large groups where other sophonts would
feel claustrophobic and overcrowded. Za’tachk also
do not feel the need for personal space or time alone.
Being alone means nobody can assist them if they are
threatened or endangered. Za’tachk cities are crowded,
noisy and busy places with nowhere to seek refuge
from the hustle and bustle.

R

