Early Za’tachk built nests in trees with spherical
or ovoid chambers constructed of branches and
leaves. As they were forced to leave the forests, they
attempted to build similar structures, moving from
branches and leaves to stone, clay and adobe. More
robust and lighter building materials were developed as
their technology developed, allowing them to build tall,
slender structures of multiple spherical and ovoid cells.

are used for industrial operations. Buildings used
to gather large groups of individuals are also found
on the ground. All structures are constructed using
the strictest of regulations to ensure safety and they
are all built to withstand the effects of earthquakes,
floods and other disasters.

An interesting aspect of Za’tachk architecture, which
extends to even the design of furniture and vehicles,
is the lack of sharp corners. Za’tachk fear being
injured, even in a minor way, and sharp corners pose
too significant a risk of injury for a Za’tachk to feel
comfortable around them.

Za’tachk enjoy a broad range of recreational activities
but actively avoid others. Sports of any sort are
not practised or enjoyed by them – they see the
confrontational aspect of sports and the risk of
personal injury to be too significant for any sport to
be enjoyed by a rational sophont. Avoiding sports
extends to simple childhood games involving direct
competition and potential aggression. Za’tachk
children do not participate in dangerous activities like
British bulldog, poison ball or tag.

As expected, construction and occupation laws
govern what each part of a structure can be used
for. Personal living apartments are usually found at
the top of structures, with the wealthy living at higher
levels than the less affluent. Schools, businesses
and governmental functions occupy the middle
levels of the towers and those closest to the ground

Instead, Za’tachk enjoy more cerebral forms of
recreation. Theatre is a popular entertainment among
Za’tachk, which attracts large crowds. The subject
matter is factual and always recreates important
aspects of Za’tachk history and accomplishments. Like
their other art forms, Za’tachk theatre is rather soulless
and dry compared to other sophonts’ offerings and is
more akin to a history lesson than art.

The Za’tachk

Modern cities are built in the open, surrounded by flat
plains whenever possible. Forests are no longer a
place of safety for Za’tachk – the trees stop them from
seeing any danger that might be approaching.

RECREATION

81

