T

Attending live music performances and concerts is also
a widely enjoyed recreational activity. Live music can
be found in many varied outlets, from small, intimate
surroundings such as cafes to be enjoyed while
Za’tachk relax over a meal and conversation, all the way
up to large concerts with audiences in the thousands.
Za’tachk also enjoy cooperative board games. The
ones which draw the most favour are those that feature
organisational tasks of varying difficulty to achieve
the game’s objective. While these games are rarely
appreciated by other sophonts (Bwap being the major
exception in this case), they are widely enjoyed by
Za’tachk in home, school and work environments.
Cooperative card games are also highly favoured by
Za’tachk, as long as they do not have a competitive
component. Like board games, card games often
feature the use of organisational skills to achieve the
outcome of the game, with the players working together
to meet a goal set by the rules. These games are often
limited by time or the number of rounds, forcing both
quick thinking and sharp skills to be successful.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

BUSINESS

Businesses are run like governments, with a council
of controlling matriarchs at the head and management
roles being held by subordinate matriarchs down to
middle and low management roles occupied by fertile
scouts and homesteaders. The rank-and-file worker
roles are the infertile scouts and homesteaders.
Businesses within the Za’tachk Alignment provide
all manner of goods and services. Those who
seek clientele beyond the Alignment primarily offer
administration and organisational services. The
services these businesses provide are in high demand
throughout the Hive Federation among those who
wish to outsource some or all of their administration.
Za’tachk propensity and skill in administration are well
known and received, and these outsourcing businesses
almost always do well.
Not only do corporations outsource their administration
to Za’tachk concerns but some governments have
also done similarly, utilising the renowned Za’tachk
talent for organisation to operate their various
administrative services. This is especially true in new
colonies, which often engage Za’tachk administrator
businesses to organise and manage the bureaucracies
required, providing sound structure and data to leaders
governing new settlements.

The Za’tachk

There are no Za’tachk megacorporations but several
corporations have expanded their reach and services
to several subsectors. The most prominent of these
corporations have excellent reputations, known for the
efficiency of their employees and the high quality of the
services they provide. A few such corporations include:
Slatrastelir: A well-known and highly respected
spacecraft classification society which has established
and maintained the technical standards for constructing
and operating spacecraft and permanent orbital
stations and high ports within the Za’tachk Alignment
and surrounding subsectors. The standards created
and used by Slatrastelir have been adopted throughout
the Hive Federation, beyond the Federation’s borders
to client states and even unaligned governments.
Slatrastelir also regularly inspect spacecraft to ensure
they meet the necessary construction and operation
standards for that type of vehicle.
Phloovastot Ath: An outsourcing company
specialising in the administration of new colonies and
settlements. The company’s main office is located in
the Za’tachk Alignment. However, most of its services

82

R

