are provided on the spinward border of the Hive
Federation, particularly in the Inapar, Phleqaar and
Nodanum subsectors. Their employees manage almost
every aspect of government on many of the worlds in
those except for the actual act of governing.
Thecudi Lestu Loox: Another outsourcing company,
Thecudi Lestu Loox (TLL), provides administrative
personnel to other companies on a contractual
basis. The company’s main office is on Uxoolus
(Wrenton sector 2233) – just outside the Za’tachk
Alignment borders to avoid taxation. It provides
services to companies in the subsectors immediately
surrounding the Alignment. While TLL’s primary
focus is business administration, the company has
recently expanded its portfolio to include several
private colleges specialising in business studies. The
company has such a high reputation that students
who have graduated from their business colleges are
highly sought after within the Hive Federation.
Beyond organisations outsourcing their
administration to Za’tachk-owned businesses, many
corporations will preferentially employ Za’tachk for
roles within their corporate services.

THE MILITARY

As members of the Hive Federation, Za’tachk have
access to Ithklur troops. Za’tachk have never taken
advantage of them – they are terrified of Ithklur and
will have as little to do with them as possible. Za’tachk
personnel on multi-sophont crewed vessels within
the Hive Federation occasionally have to interact with
Ithklur, tending to have a less timid outlook than ‘saner’
members of their species.

Za’tachk ancient languages are no longer in use,
having fallen aside in preference to Gurviotic, the
standard Federation language. Their original languages
are dead, preserved by scholars as a curiosity. Just like
their spoken language, Za’tachk use Gurvin-influenced
names for themselves. No differentiation is given to
Za’tachk sex when names are chosen – which causes
no end of amusement for the Gurvin.
Even after adopting Gurviotic, Za’tachk names still
follow ancient protocols. Each Za’tachk name consists
of three parts; a praenomen similar to a surname
and passed down from matriarch to offspring; a
midinomen similar to a given name; and finally, a
cognomen which identifies the Za’tachk’s profession
and changes if they switch jobs. The praenomen
and the midinomen are always separated by an
apostrophe, and the midinomen and the cognomen
are always separated by a dash. The name is always
used in full. The number of praenomina is limited and
identifies the family, ancestors and descendants of a
particular bloodline. Praenomen typically consist of
a single syllable of two or three letters, such as Afs,
Ba, Gi, Ker and Nov. Midinomen are comprised of two
syllables of three letters each, such as Dyblos, Vaton
and Toroce. The cognomen can consist of any number
of syllables and letters but always clearly indicates the
profession and position of the Za’tachk. If the Za’tachk
is too young to be employed, the cognomen is always
Maskis, meaning ‘too young to be employed’. Thus,
a Za’tachk from the Col nest, with a midinomen of
Sanrut and a cognomen of Pahablan would speak and
sign their name as Col’Sanrut-Pahablan.
Despite adopting Gurviotic as their primary language,
Za’tachk rely heavily on pheromone messaging
with other Za’tachk. Pheromones are mainly used
to communicate emotions and sensations like fear,
happiness, anger, hunger, desire and so forth.
Za’tachk can be identified as an individual and
community by their pheromones, so much so that
a Za’tachk does not have to see another member
of their species to identify them as someone they
know or as a stranger, which community they hail
from and how they are related to each other. A
Za’tachk somehow deprived of their sense of smell is
significantly disadvantaged when communicating with
their species and may be seen as severely disabled.

The Za’tachk

The Za’tachk do not have a large military force, as
would be expected for a species known for timidity
verging on cowardice. Instead, they prefer armed
forces with a small component of Za’tachk officers
leading enlisted troops who operate drones specifically
designed for warfare. This allows the military to act
safely from a distance while using their drones on
missions and operations. The drones are manufactured
with the best technology available, designed to be
efficiently deadly. While the Za’tachk use drones
in warfare, they will not utilise autonomous robots.
Regardless of how many fail-safes are programmed
into such robots, they fear the robots will always pose
an unacceptable risk to Za’tachk safety.

LANGUAGE

WRITTEN LANGUAGE

The Za’tachk native written languages, like their spoken
languages, have been replaced with Gurviotic script.

83

