THE ZA'TACHK HOMEWORLD
Loza’tch (A664A30-A) is located in the Za’tachk
subsector in Wrenton. The world is the second of four,
which orbit around a Class K2 V red dwarf locally
known as Xer’latkh, one of which is a gas giant. There
are also three planetoid belts in the outer system.
Loza’tch resides in orbit one at an average distance
of 0.55AU and is tidally locked to Xer’latkh, meaning
the planet’s rotational period is the same as its orbital
period. Being so close to its primary, Loza’tch is within
its jump shadow, requiring ships to enter or leave jump
at the edge of the shadow instead of 100 diameters
from the planet, increasing the travel time in normal
space. Loza’tch has an orbital period of 52 days, 22
hours and 12 minutes Imperial.

GEOGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY
Loza’tch is a dense rocky world with a liquid iron
core. A magnetic field is generated by the rotation
of the core, which serves the dual purpose of
preventing the atmosphere from being stripped away
by the solar wind and deflecting radiation emitted
by the sun. Loza’tch has a density slightly above
standard, with a surface gravity of 0.78G. The crust
is still geologically active and divided into nine major
tectonic plates. Volcanism is common, with eruptions
occurring between 75 and 120 times yearly.
The planet’s surface consists of a single supercontinent
called Vaxitraq, which covers much of the northern and
southern hemispheres. The planet is 42% water, with
four small shallow oceans and two small shallow seas.
Vaxitraq possesses six major mountain ranges which
define the edges of the tectonic plates. Mountains
tend to be tall and show the appropriate amount
of erosion considering the atmospheric density.
Geological surveys indicate Vaxitraq is in the process
of breaking up, resulting in several large continents
forming in the next few million years.
The environment is heavily influenced by the tidal
locking of the planet. The dayside is extremely
hot. A large desert exits where the sun is directly
overhead and is not survivable without considerable
protection. Little water can be found on the surface
of the planet’s dayside. The searing hot temperatures
cause the air to rise, causing hurricane-level winds
which blow towards the dark side of Loza’tch. The
surface temperature cools, approaching the twilight
zone to a comfortable level suitable for life. The
hot winds from the dayside cool and release their
moisture, filling rivers, streams and oceans, allowing
free-flowing water. The temperature continues to
drop approaching the nightside of the planet, causing
precipitation to fall as snow and surface water to
freeze. The cooler air is then drawn back towards the
dayside to repeat the cycle.

84

