THE LOZA'TCH SYSTEM

The Inner System contains only two worlds,
Nuxa’tch in orbit zero and Loza’tch in orbit one.
Nuxa’tch is a small airless rocky world tidally
locked to the sun, the dayside scorching hot
and the nightside a frozen wasteland. There is
a small solar observatory in the planet’s Twilight
Zone, crewed by seven scientists.
The outer system contains only three planets.
Antacup, the system’s sole gas giant, resides
in orbit two, with clouds of water vapour
giving it a banded blue and white appearance.
However, the atmosphere consists primarily
of hydrogen and hydrogen-rich molecules.
Antacup has four moons and 8,160 moonlets.
Only the outermost moon is colonised.
In orbit four is Qitanip, a large rocky planet
with a corrosive atmosphere of nitrogen,
fluorine and carbon dioxide. The surface is
almost completely covered with a thick layer of
carbon dioxide ice, several kilometres thick in
places, below which are deep saltwater oceans
kept liquid by the core’s heat.
Kt’actak is the outermost planet in orbit six. It
is a rocky planet with a very thin atmosphere
comprising an oxygen/nitrogen mix. Small

NATIVE LIFE FORMS

The majority of all life on Loza’tch has three sexes.
These are the Matriarch and Homesteader gender
– corresponding to females – and the Scout gender
– corresponding to males. Reproduction can occur
between only two sexes but producing a Matriarch

In orbits three, five and seven are planetary belts.
While these are listed as separate belts, they are
a single belt broken into three rings by the two
planets that orbit inside it. The inner belt contains
asteroids composed primarily of rock and metals,
while the middle and outer ring asteroids are
predominantly composed of ice. The planetary
belts are heavily populated and mined.
Loza’tch has a diameter of 9,341 kilometres
and an axial tilt of 0 degrees, making
the season changes only affected by the
eccentricity of its orbit. It is tidally locked to
the sun, making the nightside of the planet
completely covered in snow and ice. The
Twilight Zone is generally cool and wet.
A thin atmosphere with a standard oxygen/
nitrogen mix comprising 77% nitrogen, 22%
oxygen and 1% other gases, surrounds
Loza’tch. Visitors to the planet can breathe the
atmosphere without assistance.
It has no natural satellites.

requires all three genders to mate. Offspring brought
about through the mating of all three genders are
longer lived and more resistant to disease than those
resulting from only two parents.
Plant life is similar to examples found on other worlds,
ranging from simple algae to treelike analogues. Due
to the strong winds on Loza’tch, plants have adapted to
use calcium in their cell walls for strength, which allows
them to remain upright in all but the strongest gales.
Plants absorb light in the redder part of the visible light
spectrum, making leaves and photosynthetic surfaces
dark blue-green, getting darker closer to the nightside
and lighter closer to the dayside. Plants are either low
and broad to avoid damage from the strong winds or
tall and narrow to allow the wind to blow past them.

The Za’tachk Homeworld

Native life on Loza’tch is carbon-based and
compatible with most other life found throughout
Charted Space. Biodiversity is diverse, with lifeforms
adapted to survive in the extreme environments found
on the planet. Diversity is most broad in the twilight
zone, reducing in complexity and variety in the more
extreme day and night zones.

lakes of ice can be found on its surface. On the
planet is a small research outpost capable of
supporting no more than 10 scientists.

85

