Angiosperms – flowering plants – have evolved into
a broad range of varieties. Flowers are generally
small with thick, brightly coloured petals. Pollination
of angiosperms is usually performed by insect
analogues, although some plants are specialised to
use other animals for this task.
Due to the large number of asteroids in the system,
Loza’tch has experienced multiple mass extinctions,
causing the rise and decline of many animal species.
Since the last extinction event 51 million years ago,
vertebrate heterothermic pseudo-mammals have
been the dominant land-based lifeforms. Other
significant land-based lifeforms include invertebrate
insect analogues, vertebrate reptomammal
analogues and reptile analogues. Avian life is scarce
on Loza’tch due to the strong winds.
Ocean life is diverse. As the oceans have been
isolated from each other for significant geological
eras, the life within them has evolved separately
into many unique species. In them are ectothermic
vertebrate and invertebrate piscine, invertebrate
crustacean, medusoid and anthropoid analogues.
Vertebrates are generally bilaterally symmetrical
quadrupeds with a closed cardiovascular system,
although there are some rare examples of radially
symmetrical vertebrates. They possess two main body
parts – a head and a body. Four limbs for locomotion,
although some species have evolved to walk on only
two legs and the other limbs have become vestigial.
Most of the sensory organs are located on the head,
including four eyes, two ears and a mouth.

As mentioned previously, flight is rare on Loza’tch,
with only a few species utilising it, the majority of
which are invertebrate insectoids. Flying insectoids
generally have six short, broad wings, although some
use kite-like structures to be blown by the wind.

STARPORT
Loza’tch has a starport equivalent to a Class A facility
found in the Third Imperium. The starport comprises
a large orbital highport and a large surface-based
downport located far from the capital city. The highport
traffic control directs traffic approaching Loza’tch until
orbit is achieved and if travel to the surface is desired,
the direction is transferred to downport traffic control.
The starport is a major hub that services approximately
80 starships daily and can move 250,000 passengers
and 11 million tons of cargo through it weekly. It is
important to note the starport is not an extrality zone
and all Loza’tch and Za’tachk laws apply.
The highport does not provide internal berthing but
can externally dock ships up to 200,000-tons. In orbit
at a safe distance from the highport are over a dozen
construction yards capable of constructing up to 0.2
trillion tons of craft combined.
The highport looks like a huge upside-down cone with
the bottom cut off. Attached to the bottom of the cone is
a disc-like structure which looks like two shallow bowls
or saucers stacked facing each other. This area stores
refined and unrefined fuel and the starport power plants.
The cone’s lower levels contain the port’s administration
and traffic control function. The middle section includes
the main concourse and other entertainment and
service facilities for passengers. The upper section
contains warehousing and cargo transfer facilities.

The Za’tachk Homeworld

Several anatomical developments have not occurred
in the vertebrates on Loza’tch. Teeth have not
developed; instead, bony plates resembling a beak
are found in the mouth. The beak has become
specialised in most species to account for their diet,
such as a broad flat surface at the rear of the beak for
masticating fibrous plant material and sharp edges at
the front of the beak for slicing and cutting. Nails and
claws have not evolved, leading to the ends of digits
forming thick fleshy pads for protection. Lastly, fur has
not developed as a form of environmental protection.
Instead, vertebrates living in colder climes have
thicker layers of fat or blubber for insulation.

Invertebrates are generally bilaterally symmetrical
with a closed vascular system. Radial symmetry is
ubiquitous among aquatic species. They possess
external skeletons and a variable number of legs.
Body sections can vary between a head/thorax/
abdomen, head/abdomen and combined head-body
structure. Invertebrate life has many species that use
venom for protection and hunting.

87

