T

Above the cone are two thick rings, one inside the
other, attached to the cone by a central cylinder and
four heavy struts, where spaceships dock. The outer
ring has 60 docking cradles, some able to support
ships up to 200,000-tons. The inner ring also has
60 docking cradles but can only support vessels up
to 5,000-tons. Each dock has linkage apparatus for
passengers and crew to depart or alight on the ship
and refuelling capabilities. Each ring is divided into
passenger and freight terminals and several terminals
for private vessels. The rings are outfitted with
passenger lounges, staff facilities, observation bays,
amenities and other services expected by Travellers.
Cargo can be loaded and unloaded via access points
in the docking cradles for smaller vessels but larger
ships are typically loaded via EVA.
Shuttle services operate regularly from the highport
to the downport and are reasonably priced. Services
arrive and depart hourly.

The Za’tachk Homeworld

The downport is a vast facility covering 54 square
kilometres. The entire facility is surrounded by a
thick explosion-resistant wall shaped to direct any
explosions upwards. The downport has several exits
and entrances, with only those used for staff purposes
guarded. The port has enough landing bays to support
100 craft up to 5,000-tons, half of which can be sealed
to protect the craft within. Maintenance facilities are
interspersed between the berths for ease of access.
The port has several large and many small warehouses
where cargo is held until inspected by customs.

88

The administration and services section of the
downport is a large sprawling structure dominated
by a long thin tower which houses most of
the administration services and traffic control
facilities. The structure also contains a concourse,
entertainment venues, observation lounges, boarding
areas and a freight handling facility. Several large
hotels are connected to the downport structure,
providing short-term stays and rooms available to suit
many different species’ requirements.
The downport is surrounded by a large, cleared area
and is connected to the capital city via a monorail
service that can transport passengers and cargo. In
addition, grav-taxis are available to transport Travellers
to specific destinations, while several grav-bus services
can carry Travellers along established routes.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A large startown with over 200 million inhabitants has
grown around the starport. The population comprises
mainly of Hiver, Gurvin and other Hive Federation
species. Very few Za’tachk feel comfortable living in the
startown, even those who work at the starport. Most
live elsewhere where spacecraft are less likely to fall
from the sky, instead commuting to work daily.
In the startown can be found hotels, light industry,
tourist attractions, bars and, of course, less savoury
establishments. Like startowns located across
Charted Space, crime and underhanded dealings
are commonplace and Travellers should take care
when visiting.

TECH LEVEL
Loza’tch is a mature TL10 society. Medical technology
is slightly more advanced and is at an early TL11,
with early experiments on nerve refusion and
directed computer implantation being developed and
undertaken. Weapons technology is slightly lower at
early TL10, with early examples of advanced combat
rifles, reflec, combat environment suits, plasma guns,
repulsors and crystaliron composites just beginning to
enter the commercial market.

GOVERNMENT
The government of Loza’tch comprises three
councils, one each for the executive, representative
and judicial branches of governance.
The executive council comprises the owners or
CEOs of businesses with a gross annual income over
MCr500. Like the representative council, membership
in the executive council is for life unless the company’s
annual gross income falls below MCr500 or the
owner or CEO of the company retires, resigns or is
replaced by the company. Only matriarchs sit on the
executive council. The role of the executive council is to
discuss, vote on and sign legislation submitted by the
representative council into law.
The executive council is chaired by three members,
titled rearmost of rearmost. The positions have
no special powers in and of themselves except
maintaining order during executive council meetings.

R

