Still, the positions provide significant prestige to
their holders, which gives them some influence in
affecting the council’s decisions. It is not unusual for
the three holders of the positions to have differing
political views and objectives, which can divide the
executive council into groups or ‘parties’ that share
the rearmost of rearmost’s views.
The representative council is the largest group
comprising representatives of businesses with a gross
annual income in excess of MCr1. Positions in the
council are for life unless the representative retires,
resigns or is otherwise replaced by their company.
Membership is also forfeited if the representative’s
company fails to net a gross annual income of MCr1
or more. Both matriarchs and homesteaders are
eligible to sit in the representative council. The primary
responsibility of the representative council is to raise
legislation for discussion and approval before being
sent to the executive council for review.
The judiciary council comprises 12 judges assigned
to the council by the executive. Positions within the
representative and executive councils are for life
or until an individual retires, resigns or is otherwise
replaced. Both matriarchs and homesteaders are
permitted to sit on the judiciary council.

LAW LEVEL

The Law Level on Loza’tch is 0, which would appear
surprisingly lax for a world where citizens are so
wary of their personal safety. A closer look at the
planetary laws reveals they are not as relaxed as
they may first appear.

Visitors are highly restricted in where they are permitted
to visit. Most visitors to the planet are not allowed to
leave the boundaries of the starport unless they have
specific authority. The authority is very difficult to obtain
but requests can be at the starport and, if cleared,
visitors must carry a copy of the authorisation at all
times and present it when requested. Those permitted
to leave the starport must declare where they intend to
visit and for how long. Law enforcers quickly apprehend
any who stray from those areas or overstay.
With these restrictions in place and the Za’tachk’s
reluctance to carry weapons, there is very little need
for a higher Law Level regarding the possession of
weapons. Furthermore, the laws regarding harming
individuals are particularly harsh and stringently
enforced. Being seen carrying a weapon or wearing
armour openly is enough to have a Traveller accused
of having the intent to cause harm and find themselves
incarcerated while they wait to be charged and tried.

MILITARY

As a relatively pacifist society, Loza’tch does not field a
large army but the government is aware there is a need
for a defensive force to be prepared in case there is a
need. Although small, the planet can field a defence
comprising ground, airborne and space capabilities.
Planetary forces include 18,700 regiments for a total
of 93,500 battalions. Of the battalions, only 4,550 are
in active service, with the remainder being inactive or
reservists. A militia of untrained combatants can be
raised in times of emergency or as a defensive last
resort comprising 840,000 battalions.
The standard military is equipped with TL10 gear,
while elite forces are equipped with TL11 or 12
equipment imported from offworld.
Loza’tch has an annual naval budget of BCr20400.
Most of their fleet comprises system defence boats and
monitors but includes approximately 15% jump-capable
vessels. The flagship of the planetary navy is a TL10
65,000-ton heavy cruiser named the Lodrenakinuth.

The Za’tachk homeworld

Government agencies operate as a public service,
overseeing the government bureaucracy and providing
advice and recommendations to the representative
council. The government agencies are not assigned
to individuals with representative or executive
councils for oversight. Instead, government agencies
are sponsored by members of either council whose
interest lies within their field. An agency presents its
advice and recommendations to its patron council
members for consideration and action.

Technology is closely monitored and ordinary citizens
are not permitted access to technology above TL10.
Some government agencies, corporations and
authorised individuals have access to technology
above the restricted limit but these are the
exceptions to the rule.

89

