T

ECONOMY
Loza’tch is a high population world with a large
workforce and an average infrastructure. It is an
important trade hub, seeing large amounts of
imports and exports and being a central transfer
point for passing freight. Interstellar trade provides
a significant boost to the local economy as well as
supporting the economy of the subsector.
The manufacturing of weapons and armour are
primary industries on Loza’tch, which appears
somewhat contradictory to the species’ pacifistic
nature. Although not the most advanced armaments
found in either the Za’tachk Alignment or the Hive
Federation, they have the reputation of being
the most safe and reliable technology available,
guaranteed not to backfire, jam or otherwise
malfunction. Even Ithklur show a preference for
weapons and armour manufactured on Loza’tch.
Loza’tch primarily imports raw materials for
manufacturing weapons, basic consumables and
luxury items. Primary exports, apart from weapons, are
various composite alloys and information.

DEMOGRAPHICS

The Za’tachk Homeworld

Loza’tch has a population of 20 billion, 99% of which
are Za’tachk. A significant minority of Hivers makes
up 0.5% of the population and Gurvin make up 0.3%.
The remaining 0.2% of the population is comprised of
various other species. Of particular note, there are no
Ithklur on Loza’tch and they are not permitted on the
planet’s surface for any reason. Most alien species can
be found living either at the starport or closely nearby.

90

CULTURE

Loza’tch has a robust and unified culture which is
matriarchal, structured and pacifistic. As the homeworld
of the Za’tachk species, the inhabitants are proud of
their culture and view themselves as the keepers of
their species’ history and traditions. Unfortunately, this
attitude has led many Loza’tch natives to consider
other Za’tachk somewhat provincial and uncultured.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Homesteader sex is heavily discriminated against
in Loza’tch society, more so than on most other
Za’tachk worlds. Widespread discrimination, including
unequal wages and restrictive labour laws hinder
gender equality on Loza’tch.
Homesteaders’ options for paid productive work are
restricted by beliefs which value Matriarchs and Scouts
as the main income earners and Homesteaders
as the primary homemakers. When Homesteaders
work outside the home, they are often considered
suitable only for certain professions, usually related to
reproductive and childcaring roles. These stereotypes
perpetuate the disproportionate burden of care work
placed on Homesteaders, limiting their ability to take up
or remain in paid work outside the home.
This societal attitude has produced a shortfall in
the available labour force on Loza’tch, filled with
an increased use of automation and a slightly more
tolerant attitude towards limited artificial intelligence.
Independent robots are still not tolerated and continue
to generate fear in the majority of Loza’tch citizens but
they have a wider and broader range of automation
than other Za’tachk worlds.
There have been a number of attempts to eliminate
discrimination on Loza’tch, largely from offworld
concerns, but none have had much success.
Homesteaders generally do not believe they are
discriminated against, which hinders any attempts to
provide them with equality.

URBANISATION
Loza’tch is heavily urbanised but still has large
swathes of relative wilderness. Early in their history,
Za’tachk only built their settlements in the twilight
zone of the planet. Once technology advanced
enough for the Za’tachk to comfortably settle in the
day and night zones, urbanisation spread.
In the twilight zone can be found large cities featuring
typical Za’tachk architecture. Cities comprise thousands
of tall, slender towers reaching high into the sky, with
spherical and ovoid structures protruding from them. All
buildings are designed to withstand earthquakes, even
in areas not susceptible to such geological events.

R

