Cities tend to be densely populated, with very few green
areas within them. Heavy industrial areas are located on
the outskirts of cities, a distance away from habitation
areas. Za’tachk cities do not have specific areas zoned
for different uses. A typical tower could contain the
homes of dozens or hundreds of families in the upper
levels, offices, stores and outlets in the middle, and
light industry in the lower levels. Cities in the twilight
zone are also surrounded by large open areas cleared
of trees and other obstacles that could hide any
approaching danger. Air traffic is prohibited from flying
over cities as a safety precaution and almost all city
transport is provided by wheeled vehicles.
Settlements in the day and night zones usually are
arcologies built under a series of great domes or
into the sides of mountains and cliffs. Individual
towers are often built on the surface of the base city
structure, designed in the typical Za’tachk style. As
many of these cities are in very inhospitable locations,
food must either be grown within them or imported
from other cities. As with cities in the twilight zone,
heavy industry is often located at the edges of the
archologies where any pollution they create can be
directly vented to the outside environment.
Several archologies have also been built in the small
oceans of Loza’tch. These are typically located near
the shores, with the arcology partially submerged
and the remainder exposed and towering above the
waves. These cities normally specialise in a number
of aquatic industries such as aquafarming, mining
and energy generation.

Cities are connected through multiple forms of
transport, including hyperloops, maglev, road and air
networks. Travelling from one city to another is an
easy undertaking, requiring only a decision on which
form of transport is to be taken.

Loza’tch is not generally an inviting destination for
species other than Za’tachk, although there are a few
tourist attractions open to visit by curious offworlders.
Alirkli Xum: Shortly before the Za’tachk made their
first ventures into space, they feared the meeting
of alien minds apart from the Hiver would risk their
cultural and artistic identity. To help alleviate the fear,
they built a large museum where their most important
cultural artefacts and works of art could be stored and
protected. The structure was built outside the capital
city and is truly immense, if not attractive. Within is a
combination museum, art gallery, monument and device
display, highlighting what the Za’tachk believe to be
their greatest achievements. Examples of important
paintings, sculptures, ceramics, carvings, structures and
technological marvels are displayed in chronological
order and clearly described. Tours to the Alirkli Xum are
conducted via prior appointment and are accompanied
by a guide, who explains every exhibit in intricate detail.
Kagar Lorapqooh: Recognised as the site where the
first contact between Za’tachk and Hiver occurred, the
Kara Lorapqooh is a reserve kept in as close condition
as it was during the first contact. Several brass
plaques commemorate where an important individual
stood on the momentous day. The reserve is walled
and protected with electronic and live security to
preserve it for future generations. Visits are permitted
but not without prior arrangement and all visitors
must sign agreements confirming they will not disturb,
disfigure or otherwise alter the site.
Olenkakac Gurvinfanai: Located in the startown, the
Olenkakac Gurvinfanai is a trade bazaar owned and
operated by Gurvin. The bazaar is a maze of tents
and stalls held in 100 square kilometres of open fields,
creating a maze of vendors willing to buy and sell
almost anything for the right price. There are no laws
which protect the buyer on Loza’tch, so the adage ‘let
the buyer beware’ is very much in effect. As well as
traders, brokers, vendors and clients, the bazaar is a
haven for thieves, thugs, petty criminals and beggars.
While it is an exciting place to visit, and one of the few
attractions on the planet which should not be missed,
Travellers are advised not to attend the bazaar alone
and ensure their valuables are well secured.

The Za’tachk homeworld

Large areas of land are set aside for food
production. Most agriculture is controlled by
large businesses specialising in the growth and
transportation of food. Most agriculture is focused on
growing plant-based consumables, although a few
specialise in animal and insect husbandry.

PLACES AND EVENTS

91

