ZA'TACHK HISTORY
The Za’tachk have a long history full of victories and
failures. Much of their early history has been lost or
considered suspect due to the late development of
writing. Much of the history of that period is as much
myth and legend as fact. The Za’tachk do not seem to
mind, holding onto these early myths as if they were the
true history of their world. Their history became far more
rooted once writing had been developed and more so
once contact with the Hive Federation was made.

many other sophonts. As more significant numbers
of Za’tachk came to live in closer proximity and
agriculture led to an excess of food, some were freed
from the requirements of subsistence living to pursue
other activities. Stone tool use was developed during
this period – first to prepare the ground for planting
crops and then to create simple tools to ease labour.
Eventually, stone and flint were used to produce
sharper weapons to aid in defence of communities.

PREHISTORY

The Za’tachk would remain in the Stone Age for 46,000
years. Their lack of curiosity and innovation slowed
their development towards using metal tools. Despite
this, their social development continued unabated.
Political action moved from the hereditary rule of
matriarchs to monarchies supported by sophisticated
bureaucratic organisations. Writing did not develop until
later but mathematics was quickly invented to deal with
the intricacies of population control and the need to
feed growing populations. Excess food could not only
be used to free individuals from needing to grow crops
but could also be traded with other settlements.

Za’tachk evolved on Loza’tch (Wenton sector 2330) in
a system with a K2 V red dwarf primary star at 0.55AU.
Due to its close orbit, Loza’tch is tidally locked to its star.
Evolution began in the oceans of the twilight zone
and spread from there across the planet. The dim
light provided by the system’s primary led to plant
life being black and dark purple in colour to capture
as much of the visible light spectrum as possible.
Animal life evolved into seeing primarily in the
infrared portion of the spectrum.
Proto-Za’tachk developed in the temperate forests
of the twilight zone, living in nests built high in the
tree canopy and populated by family groups. ProtoZa’tachk developed rudimentary agriculture and animal
husbandry, like that found in some species of Terran
ants. Global cooling and drying caused dieback of the
forests, forcing the proto-Za’tachk to move from an
arboreal lifestyle to one on the plains. The challenges
associated with the change in environment and adapting
their agriculture to a plains environment saw an increase
in intelligence leading to sentience and sophoncy.
Several species of proto-Za’tachk evolved during this
period and adapted to different environments. Due to
their naturally peaceful and cooperative natures, when
different species of proto-Za’tachk met, they often
banded together and reproduced, eventually leading to
the modern species of Za’tachk.

THE FIRST CITIES

As a result of their cooperative nature, Modern Za’tachk
developed large settlements before they entered the
Stone Age. This led to the development of complex
social structures far earlier than experienced by

Trade rapidly developed, creating ties between city
states and allowing the sharing of new ideas. Writing
developed from mathematics used primarily in
governance for accurate record keeping. During this
time, the first Za’tachk nation rose under the rulership
of Mut’Gont-Netodre, who united several far-flung citystates into a single matriarchy known as Mut’achactk
and governed by a vast bureaucratic machine. The
Mut dynasty lasted over 1,000 years, slowly expanding
and absorbing newly discovered city-states and
replacing ruling matriarchs with the Mut lineage. New
communities were settled, further increasing the size of
the matriarchy. Metalworking had yet to be developed
but volcanic glass and obsidian had been used, leading
to sharper tools and implements used in agriculture.
It was inevitable that Mut’achactk would eventually
encounter a matriarchy as large as it was. In fact, it met
several – the Xoczaaltho Matriarchy, the Bol’varcolchk
Matriarchy and the Sazkchlarctck Matriarchy. Through
diplomacy and cooperation, political ties were created
and ideas were shared. Disputes were inevitable but
diplomacy was used to overcome most of them with
mutually beneficial solutions. Any armed conflicts were
few and short, swiftly resolved through negotiations.

95

