T

THE GREAT PLAGUE

In -34100, a previously unknown virulent disease
struck Mut’achactk. The disease, known as the
Shaking Death, began with sneezing and coughing,
swiftly leading to joint pain and muscular spasms.
Unconsciousness soon followed but the muscular
spasms continued until the individual recovered or died.
Mut’achactk’s overpopulated cities, poor sewerage
management and lack of medical knowledge allowed
the disease to spread quickly and kill thousands.
The Mut Dynasty, already immunocompromised by
successive generations of inbreeding, was devastated
by the plague, ending its 1,000-year reign. The
Shaking Death quickly spread from Mut’achactk
to the civilisations it traded with, reducing their
populations to a fraction of their former number. The
three great civilisations of Mut’achactk, Xoczaaltho,
and Bol’varcolchk collapsed completely into smaller
struggling nests. Only Sazkchlarctck managed to
survive but with a significantly reduced population.
Slowly, over the next 2,000 years, Sazkchlarctck
struggled to return to its former glory, the Shaking
Death continued to infect and kill Za’tachk but its
virulence abated. Eventually, only those with natural
immunity to the Shaking Death survived. Unfortunately,
the civilisation of Sazkchlarctck collapsed in -31900.
Those left behind fell back to forming smaller nests,
fearing the danger of living in large, overcrowded cities.

Za’tachk history

RECOVERY AND REGROWTH

96

Over 10,000 years, Za’tachk maintained only
small communities with no more than three family
groups. The ruins of their previous great civilisations
remained empty reminders of what overcrowding
brought. Trade and communication between nests
eventually recommenced and new civilisations and
cultures emerged, but no great cities were built.
Central governments returned, along with naturally
forming bureaucracies. Governing widely dispersed
communities proved difficult but the resourceful
Za’tachk overcame such problems. An efficient
communication system consisting of scouts employed
as runners to carry messages from one nest to another
developed, connecting far-flung nests.
Slowly, civilisation recovered and spread across
the surface of Loza’tch. Governments remained
dominated by large hereditary bureaucracies.
Incompetence grew as unsuitable individuals inherited
important positions. Corruption set in and then
became rampant. The organised structure of Za’tachk

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

governance became chaotic and unpredictable. This
was an intolerable situation for the naturally organised
Za’tachk, yet their lack of initiative prevented them
from finding a solution to the problem.

A NEW CIVIL SERVICE

In -14000, a young matriarch named Qek’bachktak of
the Qek Dynasty found a solution to the nepotism and
corruption befouling the civil service. She abolished
the traditional hereditary manner of recruitment in the
bureaucracies and introduced the first series of exams
which those who wished to enter civil service must
sit – no longer would a position in one of the vast civil
machines be guaranteed by birth but must be earned
through merit. The civil examinations grew in favour
slowly over the centuries as other matriarchies saw
the smooth manner in which the Qek government
operated and adopted the method.
The Za’tachk had yet to enter the Bronze Age. Bronze
working had seen some experimentation but the soft
metal was inferior to the glass and obsidian, which
were still used in tools, and experimentation ceased.
Ocean travel was restricted to staying close to the
shoreline and sailing had yet to be developed. Labour
was still largely manual, using Za’tachk, or rarely,
animal power. Mathematics was highly developed but
only in calculating food requirements or population
pressures. Political science was advanced in the areas
the Za’tachk practised but not beyond.
The Za’tachk had developed highly complex civilisations
whilst remaining firmly ensconced in the Stone Age.

FIRST CONTACT

In -4100, the Hivers arrived in the Za’tachk system
and discovered the habitable planet in the second
orbit. Hivers had been exploring space for almost
600 years and, in that time, they had discovered
complex life but no sophont life and were beginning
to believe they were alone. It came as something of
a surprise to them when their initial scans of Loza’tch
revealed evidence of intelligent life.
Further examinations of the natives revealed they had
no cities or other centres of civilisation. The Hivers
soon discovered that the Za’tachk had only achieved
a Stone Age level of technology yet had created
complex social structures.
The Hivers studied the Za’tachk from a distance for
almost 10 years, attempting to learn and understand
their cultures and traditions before making themselves
known. The first physical contact occurred in -4050.

R

