Initial attempts proved problematic, as Za’tachk
feared these strange new creatures who looked so
much like them yet were so very different. Za’tachk
were more inclined to flee from Hivers than attempt
communication. In some cases, Hiver contact parties
were attacked, albeit ineffectually, from a distance.
At first, the Hivers couldn’t quite understand how
the Za’tachk communicated, mistaking their spoken
language as meaningless vocalisations. Persistence
and a little manipulation overcame natural Za’tachk
timidity but contact progressed slowly, complicated
by a lack of a common language. Communication
was eventually established through a simplified form
of Hiver sign language.
The Hivers were overjoyed to learn that the Za’tachk
were a peaceful species, given to diplomacy rather
than conflict, and they valued cooperation and
organisation highly. Yet despite the sophistication
of their politics and civilisation, the Za’tachk were a
child species and this resonated with Hiver parental
instincts. More importantly, the Za’tachk had natural
skills in areas the Hivers could see would benefit a
larger interstellar community.
Work began to raise the Za’tachk to what Hivers
considered adulthood. Communication was difficult
until the Hivers adopted the Gurvin language and
taught it to the Za’tachk. With the communication
hurdle overcome, relations between the Za’tachk and
the Hivers grew and strengthened.

The Za’tachk were carefully shepherded through the
industrial age and into the pre-stellar era over the next
200 years. Most of the errors made by species not
fortunate enough to be guided by benevolent benefactors
were avoided – the Za’tachk never had to deal with deadend experimentation, excessive pollution, climate change
or mass extinctions. The Hivers gave the Za’tachk the
technology they needed when they needed it.

By -3700, the Hivers provided the technology the
Za’tachk required to make their first forays into
space. In just under 100 years, the Za’tachk had
spread out to colonise their solar system.
By -3600, the Za’tachk were provided with the
technology to build their first jump drive. At first, the
Za’tachk were reluctant to undergo interstellar travel,
fearing the minor but still possible risk of misjumping.
Yet, they understood the need to spread their species to
other worlds to guarantee survival in the event of their
homeworld suffering an extinction level catastrophe. A
few insane Za’tachk took up the challenge and began
the exploration of the local star cluster. As the relative
safety of jump travel became known, more Za’tachk
were willing to take the risk of interstellar journeys.
The Hivers had already set aside space for the
Za’tachk to expand into and they steadily explored and
then settled their local star cluster of seven systems.
The Za’tachk showed no further interest in developing
beyond the Hiver-imposed limits to exploration, content
with what they had achieved.
While some Za’tachk moved to colonise the stars,
others joined forces with their Hiver benefactors,
bringing their expertise in organisational structure
and civil management. By this stage, Za’tachk could
be found serving on Hiver spacecraft, working in
their organisations and assisting in governing the
neophyte Federation.
This remained the status quo for approximately 500
years. During this period, the foundations of the
Za’tachk Alignment were developed and cemented into
law. The few planets which the Za’tachk had colonised
continued to grow and prosper. The Alignment
government reached out to the Hive Federation with
a request to open more planets for their colonisation.
The Federation was more than happy to comply with
the request. The subsectors set aside by the Hivers for
Za’tachk exploration and settlement were presented to
them, along with the specifications of the jump-2 drive.
The Za’tachk once again reached for the stars,
exploring the worlds newly within their reach. Slowly
they colonised them. Like proud parents watching their
offspring leave home to begin their lives, the Hivers
looked on, providing advice and assistance to ensure the
Za’tachk developed and grew in the desired direction.

Za’tachk history

The Hivers introduced technology slowly to the
Za’tachk but far more swiftly than if they were to
discover it themselves. The Za’tachk fear of living near
others was alleviated with improved sanitation and
medical knowledge. Rarely did the Za’tachk request
new technologies, yet despite their lack of curiosity,
they quickly realised the benefits the new technologies
introduced by the Hivers brought. In less than 100
years, the Za’tachk rose from a Stone Age civilisation to
one entering an industrial revolution.

TO THE STARS

97

