T

WAR

In -2038, the Hive Federation entered a war with the
expansionistic and xenophobic K’Kree. The Za’tachk
were horrified by the K’Kree and their genocidal
tendencies. They petitioned the Hive Federation to
eradicate the enemy species before it could destroy
the interstellar polity. The Federation was reluctant
to go to such extremes but assured the Za’tachk
Alignment they had plans to deal with the K’Kree. The
Hiver reluctance did not sit well with the Alignment
and as the war wore on, they threatened to secede
from the Federation several times.
This period was a time of great upheaval in the Za’tachk
Alignment. Not satisfied with how their government
was handling the war, some Za’tachk worlds built
enormous generational space arks for a select portion
of populations to flee beyond the trailing and rimward
borders of the Hive Federation. These massive vessels
were designed to accelerate to a fraction of the speed of
light and then coast until they had travelled a sufficient
distance from the borders of the Hive Federation. Those
who fled were willing to risk the sublight journey, which
would take thousands of years to complete, rather than
face the risk of being eradicated at the hands of the
K’Kree. Communications were maintained with the arks
for several decades after their launch.

Za’tachk history

In a bid to protect the Za’tachk homeworld, the
Alignment government began a project to calculate
the feasibility of moving the entire Loza’tch star
system out of Federation space. Studies were
initiated on methods of moving their primary star,
various gravitic engines were postulated, the amount
of energy required to move the star at relativistic
speeds, the survivability prospects of Loza’tch when
travelling at such speeds and so on.
By -2017, the war with the K’Kree was over but the
Za’tachk Alignment was not convinced the Federation
was safe from their coreward neighbours. They
continued their research into moving the Za’tachk
home system with the intention of eventually having
the technology to flee into a safer area of space. The
study continued for almost 200 years when it was
suddenly dropped with no real explanation given by
the Alignment Government except to confirm to the
Za’tachk people its belief in the Federation government
and the role it took in defending them.
In -1889, the last message was received from the
sublight ark fleeing towards the rimward border of the
Hive Federation. In the intervening years, contact was

98

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

lost with the other fleeing arks. No public attempt was
ever made to discover the fates of the lost arks. The
consensus among the Za’tachk was the ark project was
a fool’s errand ill-conceived by insane individuals.

THE MODERN DAY

In 1090, the Za’tachk learned of the approaching
Empress Wave. The news was kept secret by the
Alignment government for the fear it would bring an
unmitigated manic terror to all those who learnt of its
approach. The Alignment began making preparations to
avoid the effects of the wave. The research into moving
large stellar bodies was reinitiated, drawing on the
research from the previous attempt but investigations
indicated the project would not be successful. Moving
an entire solar system would take millions of years
and the Empress Wave would overtake them in that
time. Yet, despite this evidence, more conservative
voices within the Alignment prevailed and funds were
funnelled into the stellar engine project. The Za’tachk
did not have the technology to achieve their goals but
intended to gain it before the wave arrived.
Other projects were initiated, their true purpose hidden
from the public. Some researched the possibility of
protecting Za’tachk worlds from the worst effects
of the Empress Wave with an energy screen, while
others sought to relocate the population. One project
involved building new arks similar to those lost 3,000
years in the past. These new arks, 34 kilometres in
length and 18 kilometres wide were publicised as
colonial transports to carry entire populations to new
worlds. The arcs were projected to take over half a
century to build. Construction began immediately on
three arks. Another five arks would begin construction
over the next decade.
The ark project was fraught with complications. Funding
was often unreliable, causing construction delays. At
other times, factions with the Alignment government
sought to sabotage the attempts, preferring to see
more effort placed on the stellar engine project. This
delayed the completion of the arks, which drew further
criticism from more conservative voices.
By 1100, construction secretly began on the first
stellar engine for the Za’tachk home system. The
structure is expected to take over a century to
complete but if successful will enable the stellar
engine to draw power from the sun itself to propel it
away from the Empress Wave and rimward out into
the galactic void. The budget for such a device was
astronomical but the Za’tachk were quite prepared to
bankrupt the entire Alignment to succeed.

R

