THE ZA'TACHK ALIGNMENT
The Za’tachk Alignment is a bureaucratic polity
within the borders of the Hive Federation in Wrenton.
The Alignment occupies most of the Za’tachk and
Kanblophalre subsectors and stretches a short
way into Sluinqun and Riekluar. The majority of the
population within the Alignment is Za’tachk, although
people of all the major Hive Federations species live
and work there as well.
Each world within the Alignment is allowed limited
self-rule, while the vast Alignment bureaucracy
governs the overall polity. Each world must adhere
to the laws issued by the Alignment bureaucracy
or risk a series of punishments starting with fines
and ending in censorship. In many ways, where the
Alignment begins and individual world governments
end can confuse outsiders but the Za’tachk have no
problems finding the dividing lines.

THE ALIGNMENT GOVERNMENT
A broad and almost all-encompassing impersonal
bureaucracy governs the Alignment. Within the
bureaucracy are almost countless agencies which
oversee practically every aspect of the population’s
lives. The bureaucracies are divided between
greater and lesser bureaus.

Each world in the Za’tachk Alignment, 42 in total, and
the Alignment itself, has a greater bureau dedicated to
it. The bureau represents the world it is responsible for
within the interstellar polity. The head of each bureau
sits on the Alignment Grand Commission, the highest
level of government within the Alignment. The grand
commission is headed by the three matriarchs chosen
from among the members of the high commission, who
are known as the rearmost of rearmost secretaries.
The grand commission is where items of legislation
raised by the individual bureaus are debated and
decided upon. The rearmost of rearmost, despite being
the recognised heads of the Za’tachk Alignment, have
no special veto power. However, their opinions hold
significant weight with the other commission members.
The heads of the planetary bureaus are not the only
members of the grand commission – the leaders of
every other grand bureau also have a seat on the
grand commission. This includes, but is not limited to,
the bureaus of defence, external intelligence, internal
intelligence, finance, population, reproduction, foreign
relations, internal relations, law enforcement, border
security, justice and civic service.
The grand commission, and most other grand bureaus,
have their headquarters on the Za’tachk homeworld.
The buildings and facilities of the grand commission
have diplomatic status and are not subject to the laws
and regulations of Loza’tch. The grand commission
meets at the Alignment Tower, an enormous skyscraper
over two kilometres high located in the centre of the
Alignment Central Plaza. The plaza hosts other grand
bureau buildings and has a dedicated starport.
Staff from the bureaus are drawn from the populace
of the member worlds of the Alignment. Once a year,
exams organised and administered by the Grand
Bureau of Civic Service are held on each planet.
Individuals interested in serving the Alignment
government sit the exams to win a position in one of
the bureaus. The exams are entirely impersonal and
favour is not given based on family, social standing or
level of education. With that said, most worlds have
education facilities geared to provide students with the
best chance of getting a passing mark. The exams are
highly competitive and success in the entrance exams
is an outstanding achievement.

100

