Progressing within the bureaus is also conducted via
exams. There are no interviews or natural promotions.
Each step in an employee’s career is governed by how
well they fared in the last exam they chose to sit. This
merit system ensures, perhaps a little idealistically, that
only those capable of a position are granted one.

The Interstellar Ground Forces are equivalent to the
armies of other polities. Similar to the space forces,
they are stationed on bases located on worlds near
the Alignment border. The ground forces also perform
routine manoeuvres and occasionally perform joint
manoeuvres with the space forces.

Each member world must contribute to the Grand
Bureau of Finance to fund the Alignment. The Grand
Bureau of Finance decides the contribution amount
based on the population of the member planet and
considers the wealth, resources and workforce of the
world in question. The member planet, through its
representative grand bureau, may attempt to negotiate
with the Grand Bureau of Finance to reduce the amount
of the world’s contribution. These negations can be
highly time-consuming, often taking months to conclude.

The Za’tachk Alignment has no marine force. Instead,
the role of marines is undertaken by select units
drawn from the Interstellar Space Force.

THE MILITARY

The Za’tachk Alignment has a military organisation,
the Grand Bureau of Defence, to which the role of
defending the polity falls. The military is relatively
small as the Hive Federation provides the majority of
defence for its member nations. The Alignment military,
therefore, is primarily a coast guard with the purview
of protecting the borders of the Alignment should the
case ever arise that the Hive Federation’s forces are
unable to. With the permission of the grand bureau,
the Alignment military is also required to lend aid to the
Hive Federation military when needed.

The military is divided into two branches: the
Interstellar Space Force and the Interstellar Ground
Force. The space forces are equivalent to the navies
of other polities. Bases are located in systems on
the border of the Alignment where the vessels of the
space fleet are stationed. Routine manoeuvres often
take task forces away from their bases to perform
regular patrols and occasionally wargames.

The Interstellar Space Force is purely an organisation
for the defence of the Za’tachk Alignment. Its forces
are paid for with a budget supplied annually by the
Grand Bureau of Finance, from which the space force
is to build and maintain its fleet of vessels and provide
monetary remuneration to its personnel.
Personnel are drawn from the member planets of
the Alignment and selected through the ordinary
course of examinations held by the Grand Bureau of
Civic Service. All Za’tachk who complete the battery
of exams enter the Space Force as the equivalent
of a non-commissioned officer. From there, recruits
are trained in basic skills, which takes 10 weeks.
Those who successfully pass are assigned to units
where training in specialities continues. Promotion
is gained through completing promotion exams. All
commissioned officers are drawn from a pool of eligible
non-commissioned personnel who successfully pass
the officer exam. There is no limit to how many times
military personnel may sit promotion exams but they
may only sit one exam per term.
The space force is commanded by three rearmost
admirals, who are charged with their duty by the Grand
Bureau of Defence. While the rearmost admirals do not
have a seat on the grand commission, they routinely
advise the security on interstellar military matters. The
rearmost admirals are stationed at the space force
base on Loza’tch and report directly to the securities of
the Grand Bureau of Defence.
The space force has a relatively small number of
vessels, although the vessels it does have tend to
be large and heavily armoured. No crewed vessel is
smaller than 1,000-tons. Smaller vessels are drones
operated by pilots secure in a mothercraft. The fleet
is divided into four fleets, one for each subsector the
Alignment crosses. The Alignment lies primarily in

The Za’tachk Alignment

The role and actions the Alignment military are
permitted to take are limited to purely military actions.
There is no overlap with the functions of the Grand
Bureaus of Border Control, which is responsible for
preventing the smuggling of prohibited items into the
Alignment, the Grand Bureau of Intelligence, which
is responsible for security within the borders of the
Alignment and the Grand Bureau of Law Enforcement
which prevents piracy and apprehends interstellar
criminals within the Alignment. Each bureau is highly
protective of its areas of jurisdiction. While they may
work together occasionally, they are cautious not to
infringe on the responsibilities of the other.

NAVY ORGANISATION

101

