T

the Za’tachk and Kanblophalre subsectors, so those
two fleets are the largest. Each fleet is based at one
or more bases in their home subsector, except for
the Riekluar Fleet, part of the Kanblophalre fleet and
found in that subsector.
Fleets are named after the subsector they are
assigned to. Fleets of the coreward subsectors are
further broken down into squadrons named after the
planet they are stationed at. For example, the Loza’tch
Taskforce is stationed at Loza’tch and is part of the
Za’tachk subsector fleet. Squadrons are further broken
down into divisions and, finally, taskforces which are
formed for specific operations. All formations have a
number of vessels divisible by three.

NAVY OPERATIONS

The Za’tachk Alignment

Space force vessels tend to be large and heavily
armoured. This philosophy makes sense when viewed
through a Za’tachk lens – a larger, better armed ship
will provide far more protection than a smaller, less
well armoured vessel. Vessels are armed uniformly
with long-range weapons. Missiles are favoured,
with energy weapons used primarily for defence and
point defence batteries. An exception to this design
philosophy is the inclusion of spinal energy mounts
on vessels large enough to support them, although
Za’tachk ships are never armed with mass drivers.

102

Military ships smaller than 1,000-tons are all drones,
remotely piloted from another vessel. The fleet uses
drone fighters to protect crewed ships with a mobile
defensive screen. Unlike crewed vessels, drone
vessels are typically lightly to moderately armoured
and often heavily armed with only energy weapons,
as there are no risks of pilots being injured or killed.
This has drawbacks, primarily signal jamming,
although this becomes less of a problem with laser
and meson communication.
While the space force utilises combat drones, it does
not use vessels that cannot operate independently.
There are no robot fighters or missiles – smart
missiles are as far as the Za’tachk will go and even
those cause some anxiety.
Naval operations include frequent patrols along the
Alignment border. Given the nature of interstellar travel,
these patrols naturally take the form of patrol forces
jumping into a solar system near the border. They

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

spend time within the system to refuel and establish
their presence before jumping to the next system.
The trailing border in the Kanblophalre and Riekluar
subsectors is closest to the Hive Federation border and
unaligned space, so it is the most actively patrolled.
The space force includes the Special Tactical
Operations Group (STOG), which performs some
of the duties usually assigned to marines in other
polities, including boarding actions and ship security.
The members of STOG are elite drone jockeys who
perform their tasks through remotely controlled drones.
STOG drones are routinely Za’tachk-sized to enable
easy access to heavily armed and armoured vessels.
STOG units hold a particular prestige among young
Za’tachk scouts and it is a great badge of honour to be
a member of these units.

ARMY ORGANISATION

Like the space force, the Interstellar Ground Force
is financed through funds allocated to it from the
Grand Bureau of Finance collected from Alignment
member worlds. The funds are used to purchase and
maintain ground forces bases, vehicles, equipment
and pay personnel.
Personnel are drawn from individuals who pass the
entrance exams set out and administered by the
Grand Bureau of Civic Service. Like the space force,
those who pass the exams are recruited as noncommissioned personnel and given initial training,
which lasts 10 weeks, before being assigned to
a unit where training continues along specialised
paths. Officers are similarly drawn from those noncommissioned soldiers who pass an officer candidate
exam. Promotion and candidate exams can be sat
as many times as an individual desires but no more
frequently than once a term.
The ground force maintains several bases on Alignment
member worlds, most located on planets in the Za’tachk
subsector. Each base is capable of undertaking its initial
training of recruits. Most ground force recruits rarely
leave the planetary base where they were trained.
The ground forces are commanded by three rearmost
generals, generally stationed at Loza’tch. While they do
not have a seat on the grand commission, the rearmost
generals are members of a small council which directly
advises the secretary. They report directly to the
secretaries of the Grand Bureau of Defence.

R

