ZA'TACHK TRAVELLERS
Za’tachk Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers, as detailed in the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

ZA’TACHK

Za’tachk Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR+1
Za’tachk Matriarch Travellers have the following
additional modifiers to their characteristics: INT+1,
EDU+1, BOL-1.
Za’tachk Scout Travellers have the following additional
modifiers to their characteristics: INT-1, EDU-1, BOL+1.

BOLDNESS
The Boldness (BOL) characteristic measures a
Za’tachk’s will, courage and sense of self-preservation.
A Za’tachk with a low BOL has a strong sense of selfpreservation and understands the need to protect itself
from dangerous situations.
A BOL of 7+ indicates the Za’tachk has an insufficient
sense of self-preservation – in other words, is
courageous and has the willpower to continue on in the
face of danger – and is seen as somewhat mentally
unstable in the eyes of other Za’tachk. Higher BOL
indicates a greater sense of courage and willpower and
therefore, less mental stability. A BOL of 10+ indicates
a Za’tachk considered insane by their fellows. Traveller
Za’tachk tend to have a higher BOL characteristic than
their non-adventuring counterparts.
BOL is calculated as 1D+1.
Whenever Za’tachk are in a potential or actual
physically dangerous situation, they must make an
Average (8+) BOL check to continue acting normally.
If they fail, they must retreat immediately to a place
of safety. If unable to retreat, they will fall to the
ground, tuck their head and legs under their body, and

104

remain that way until the danger has passed. If a BOL
check is failed by an Effect -6 or worse, they will not
retreat but drop immediately to the ground and enter
a catatonic state for a number of rounds equal to the
negative Effect of their failed check before being able
to make another BOL check.
The Referee may also require a BOL check if Za’tachk
Travellers are involved in risky endeavours such
as a chancy business deal, meeting an important
official or breaking the law. In these instances, the
Referee should allow a positive DM based on what the
ramifications of failure would be, such as choosing a
safer option or remaining indecisive.

ZA’TACHK TRAITS

Za’tachk Travellers all possess the following traits:
Brachiator: Za’tachk are exemplary climbers and may
use all their limbs as either locomotors or manipulators.
They gain DM+2 when climbing or swinging. If they
are on unstable or precarious flooring and there are
handholds available, they gain DM+2 to any check
used to stabilise themselves or maintain their footing.
Coward: Za’tachk are psychologically timid and
frightened of physical violence, aggression and
conflict. If a Za’tachk is threatened or attacked at
a range of 50 metres or less, they must make an
immediate BOL check. This will usually be at Average
(8+) difficulty but may be modified by circumstances.
If the Za’tachk fails the check, they must immediately
abandon what they are doing and make a defensive
action. This may mean running away, seeking higher
ground or hiding behind a crewmate. If the roll has
an Effect of -6 or less, the Za’tachk will immediately
drop to the ground, tuck their head and limbs under
their body and enter a catatonic state for a number
of rounds equal to the Effect of their failed roll before
being able to make another BOL check. If the check
is passed, the Za’tachk has overcome their instinctual
fear and may act normally but will suffer DM-2 on all
actions made whilst under such a threat.

