T

Heightened Senses: Za’tachk can see into the
infrared spectrum but have difficulty seeing clearly
in bright light. This allows them to see heat and
thermal signatures. Objects which are warmer than
the ambient temperature appear in shades of red,
graduating to orange, yellow and finally white for
the hottest temperatures. Objects cooler than the
ambient temperature appear in various shades of
blue, graduating to purple and finally black for the
coldest temperatures. All Za’tachk receive DM+2 to
any Recon and Survival checks in darkness but suffer
DM-2 to any check requiring sight in bright conditions.
The penalty in bright light can be avoided if the
Za’tachk wears light-reducing lenses.

TITLES
Za’tachk do not have a system of hereditary nobility
but certain honorifics exist for those viewed with
respect and deference. If a Za’tachk is awarded a
noble title from another species or world, they will
adopt the title in situations which warrant its use but
it will mean nothing to them.

Za’tachk Travellers

Za’tachk Travellers with a high SOC and low BOL
are the cream of their society, seen as leaders of
the community and exemplifying the best Za’tachk
characteristics. This can easily be seen as a form
of nobility but, in reality, it is a formal manner of
addressing those recognised as social superiors.

106

However, while Za’tachk all recognise these
honorifics, not everyone with a high SOC and low BOL
is awarded an honorific. Those who hold such have
many duties and obligations that may preclude them
from a life of adventure. After all, a typical nulado may
reign over an entire world and Travellers will generally
want to explore the universe rather than be engaged
in constant administration.

STARTING AGE
Za’tachk Travellers begin their careers at an age based
on their sex. Scouts and Homesteaders start their
careers at 10 and Matriarchs begin their careers at 15.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

BACKGROUND SKILLS
Za’tachk gain background skills at level 0 like other
sophonts, receiving a number of skills equal to their
EDU DM+3. These skills may be chosen from those
listed in the Travellers Core Rulebook, page 8.
Za’tachk Travellers must include the Admin skill at
level 0 as one of their background skills.

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

Za’tachk Travellers may use the Pre-Career Education
options in the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 14, but
may only choose university. There are no military
academies in the Za’tachk Alignment.

THE DRAFT
Za’tachk do not utilise the draft. Travellers who fail to
qualify for a career must enter either the Drifter
or Rogue careers.

CAREERS
Za’tachk Travellers use the career generation system
as detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook. Careers a
Traveller may enter are limited by their sex.
Matriarchs are leaders and decision makers among
the Za’tachk. They are permitted to enter the Citizen
(corporate), Drifter, Merchant, Noble, Rogue
and Scholar careers.
Homesteaders are typically restricted to administration,
education, child-rearing, crafts, management and the
distribution of basic goods and services. They are
permitted to enter the Citizen, Drifter, Entertainer,
Merchant, Rogue and Scholar careers.
Scouts cover exploration, hunting, defence, policing
and performing heavy labour. They are permitted to
enter the Agent, Citizen (worker or colonist), Drifter,
Rogue and Scout careers. Scouts may choose to
enter the Army (support) or Navy careers as described
in the Traveller Core Rulebook – these scouts either
come from multi-species worlds or have joined the
army or navy of another polity.
Those who enter the Za’tachk Alignment army or navy
should use the Za’tachk Interstellar Ground Force or
Za’tachk Interstellar Space Force careers instead.

R

