Careers
Career
Za’tachk Interstellar
Ground Force

Za’tachk Interstellar
Space Force

Assignment

Qualification

Survival

Advancement

Support

END 3+

EDU 9+

Light Drone Jockey

DEX 6+

EDU 8+

Heavy Drone Jockey

DEX 8+

INT 7+

Crew/Gunner

INT 6+

EDU 8+

Engineer/Flight

INT 5+

EDU 6+

Drone Jockey

DEX 7+

EDU 7+

END 5+

INT 6+

Za’tachk Interstellar Ground Force: The Za’tachk
Interstellar Ground Force is the Za’tachk Alignment’s
army. Each regiment is formed from forces gathered
from the worlds of the Za’tachk Alignment. They rely on
drones and other remote equipment for combat while
remaining safe behind the front line.

ROLEPLAYING ZA’TACHK

Za’tachk Interstellar Space Force: The Za’tachk
Interstellar Space Force patrols the territory of
the Za’tachk Alignment, protecting the area from
invasive forces and deterring piracy and other illegal
interstellar activities.

Za’tachk are characterised by their cowardice. They
hesitate to place themselves in any form of physical
danger and are more inclined to act from a distance as
a form of self-preservation. If their situation becomes
dangerous, Za’tachk will attempt to retreat immediately
to a position of safety. If unable to retreat, they must
test their Boldness to remain where they are. This lack
of courage can also manifest when Za’tachk perceive
dangers other than physical, such as meeting an
important individual or making a risky business deal.
Za’tachk will always look for the safest way of achieving
their goals and if one cannot be found they are more
likely to abandon the attempt than pursue it.

ZA’TACHK LIFE EVENTS
The life events of the Za’tachk are similar to those
of humans. Use the Life Events table in the Traveller
Core Rulebook, page 44.

AGEING

Ageing differs for Za’tachk based on the sex of
the Traveller.

Fertile scouts and homesteaders begin ageing
after four terms and make an ageing roll each term
thereafter. Each ageing roll has a penalty of DM-2.
Matriarchs begin ageing at six terms and make an
ageing roll each term thereafter. Each ageing roll has
a bonus of DM+2.

MUSTERING OUT
Za’tachk Travellers use the mustering out system as
detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

Za’tachk are also highly organised. They will always
find disorganisation distasteful, with more significant
disorganisation resulting in greater disgust. A
Za’tachk will personally avoid any form of disorder.
Within Traveller groups, for example, they will want
to know where they stand in the hierarchy, including
who is superior or inferior to them.
This desire to know their place will be evident in
all their interactions – Za’tachk become extremely
uncomfortable if they do not know where they stand.
This extends to not only their immediate companions
but also their larger organisational and societal
positions. Za’tachk also expect those inferior to them
to follow their commands, while they will follow the
orders of those superior to them.

Za’tachk Travellers

Infertile scouts and homesteaders begin ageing after
two terms, making an ageing roll each term thereafter.
Each ageing roll has a penalty of DM-4.

Almost all Za’tachk Travellers will be matriarchs,
fertile homesteaders or scouts. Infertile
homesteaders and scouts have too short a lifespan
to make them suitable as Travellers.

107

