Events

2D
2
3
4

5
6
7
8
9

10
11

Mishaps

12

1D
1
2
3

6

MISHAP
Severely injured (this is the same as a result of 2 on the Injury table). Alternatively, roll twice on the
Injury Table and take the lower result
Your unit’s drones are demolished in a disastrous battle, for which you blame your commanding
officer. Gain them as an Enemy as they have you removed from the service.
You were ordered to participate in a black ops mission that goes against your conscience. You
refused and were ejected from the service.
You quarrel with a superior officer. Gain the officer as a Rival as they drive you out of the service.
You accidentally destroy a fellow soldier’s drone in a friendly fire situation. Roll Advocate 8+. If you
succeed you are not charged but forced out of the service. If you fail, you are charged and forced
from the service. If you roll a 2, you must take the Prisoner career for your next term. Regardless of
the result, gain the fellow as an enemy.
You are wounded in the line of duty. Roll on the Injury table.

Ranks and BONUSES (CONT.)
RANK
1
2
3

OFFICER
Sper
Goc
Van Goc

SKILL OR BONUS
Leadership 1
—
Tactics (military) 1

RANK
4
5
6

OFFICER
Disa
Tarn
Xok

SKILL OR BONUS
—
BOL +1
SOC 10 or SOC +1, whichever is higher

1

Za’tachk Travellers

4
5

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.
You garrison on a major military base with access to a wide range of recreational facilities. Gain one
of Carouse, Gambling, Streetwise or Survival.
You are stationed at a boring billet and take up gambling to pass the time. Roll BOL 8+. If you
succeed, gain D3 additional Benefit rolls this term. If you fail, lose your Benefit for this term. In either
case, gain one level in Gambler.
Your drone is caught between two fighting units. If you stand your ground and fight your way out,
make an Electronics (remote ops) roll 8+. If you succeed, Gain one of Drive (any), Electronics (any)
or Flyer (any). If you fail, lose your Benefit for this term.
Your commanding officer selects you for advanced training. Roll BOL 8+ to gain one of Admin 1,
Advocate 1, Electronics 1, Engineer 1 or Mechanic 1.
Life Event. Roll on the Life Event table.
You lead a surgical strike of great importance and your judgement is commended. Gain one of
Leadership, Tactics (military) or take DM+4 on your next advancement roll.
You discover your superior officer is involved in criminal activities. If you cover for them, gain them as
an Ally. If you wish to turn them in, roll BOL 8+. If you succeed you are commended for your actions
and are automatically advanced or gain a commission. If you fail, you cannot roll for advancement or
commission this term. In either case, you gain the officer as an Enemy.
You spend time acting as your commanding officer’s executive assistant. Roll EDU 6+ to gain Admin 1.
You are challenged to a test of skill by a rival. If you refuse, lose SOC -1. Accept and roll your highest skill
8+. If you fail, lose all benefits from this term. If you succeed, gain DM+2 to your next advancement roll.
You come up with an innovative tactic during an exercise which proves to be exceptionally effective.
You are either promoted or automatically commissioned to officer rank.

109

