IGH

H GUARD OF THE ZA'TACHK
The Za’tachk Alignment has a small fleet of
spacecraft. Their design principles are similar to
those of other species. Their spacecraft closely
resemble the Hivers, although they lack the in-built
versatility prevalent on Hiver craft.
Za’tachk craft are roughly cylindrical or cigar-shaped
in design. An obvious design feature is the lack of
sharp corners. Every surface is smoothly rounded, as
sharp edges risk injuring a crewmember and corners
pose a tear risk to vacc suits.

fuel located closest to the ship’s hull. Missile storage
is situated as far from anything volatile as possible to
reduce any risk of chain reaction detonations should
there be an explosion in the munition stores.
Due to their superstition over the number three,
the Za’tachk military and paramilitary will always
have three commanding officers and a total crew
complement divisible by three. This may lead to
vessels being over-manned in some areas.

Za’tachk prefer to armour their spacecraft as heavily
as possible – they feel safer knowing that a thickly
armoured bulkhead protects them from the vacuum of
space, not to mention other hazards such as pirates,
micrometeorites, radiation and so forth.
All crewed Za’tachk vessels will carry small craft or
lifeboats if the main vessel needs to be abandoned.
Spacecraft will carry enough small craft for the entire
crew and passenger complement. To further the safety
of space travel, Za’tachk vessels have redundant
systems if one system breaks down. All manned
vessels will have a backup manoeuvre drive, jump
drive, power plant, computer and sensor systems.
The exception to heavily armoured vessels are those
which do not have crew complement, such as support
craft. Remote pilots control these and are primarily
designed to be cheap to build and inexpensive to
replace unless their primary purpose is combat.
Civilian vessels tend to be armed with lasers as a
defensive measure. Paramilitary and military vessels
are primarily armed with missiles and torpedoes as a
first line of offence and lasers as defensive measures.
If the vessel is large enough to house a spinal mount,
that will be the first line of offence, followed by the
standard armament of missiles, torpedoes and lasers.
Good Za’tachk naval architecture dictates the bridge
is located in the centre of the vessel, where it is
protected from damage by the rest of the ship. The
bridge is generally surrounded by staterooms, with ship
operational areas such as engineering, cargo bays and

123

