Gurvin possess two legs, two arms and an
intermediary pair of limbs which can function equally
well as either arms or legs. The limbs possess two
joints, each corresponding to knees, ankles, elbows
and wrists. The four upper limbs end in dexterous
hands with three digits and an opposable thumb on
both the left and right side of the palm. The legs end
in somewhat larger feet with only three toes. Both
fingers and toes end in blunt claws.
Gurvin can adopt a bipedal or quadrupedal stance as
circumstances dictate. They prefer to run using their
intermediary limbs and legs, giving them a bounding
gait which further likens them to otters and minks.
When stationary, Gurvin squat on their haunches and
use all four hands for manipulation.
Gurvin possess a tail which comprises approximately
a third of their body length. The tail is neither
prehensile nor capable of much movement. Its primary
function is to assist in balance, dragging on the floor
behind the Gurvin, useless as a weapon.
Skeletal tissue is composed of calcium carbonate in
a protein matrix. The skeletal structure contains an
extremely flexible spine supporting a ribcage, two
complex shoulder girdles and a pelvic structure. The
ribcage is reinforced with horizontal cartilaginous
bracing, providing extra protection to internal organs
while not restricting flexibility.
The skull is connected to the spine with a highly
mobile ball and socket joint, allowing them to turn
their heads 180 degrees to see directly behind
themselves. This flexibility makes the joint somewhat
unstable and Gurvin can suffer from an extremely
painful dislocated skull.

Breathing is only performed through a small slit on
each cheek under the eyes. Nasal cavities lead to a
trachea wholly separated from the oesophagus and into
a single lung on the left side of the body, which extends
down through both ribcages. This physiology makes it
impossible for Gurvin to choke on a swallowed item but
equally so for them to breathe through their mouths.

Gurvin senses are analogous to that of Humaniti. Their
hearing is tuned to slightly higher frequencies than
humans, while their sense of smell is noticeably sharper
compared to humans. Gurvin sight is adapted to the
brighter light projected by the F9 V star of their home
system, allowing them to tolerate brighter light than
humans but with somewhat less visual acuity in the dark.
Gurvin do not possess olfactory senses in their nose.
Instead, the olfactory nerve is located in an organ in
the palate of the mouth. To smell, Gurvin use their
tongue to sample the air and then slide it across their
olfactory nerve. This gives the impression of the Gurvin
frequently licking their lips.
Female Gurvin produce a milk-analogue rich in
proteins and fats in a bladder connected to the upper
small intestine. The milk-analogue is regurgitated
directly into the mouth of their young. When the
young are hungry, they raise their heads and open
their mouths to display the vivid purple skin inside
their mouth and tongue. The display is accompanied
by incessant high-pitched squeaking. This behaviour
induces milk-analogue production in the mother. As
the young mature and need to rely less on the milk
analogue provided by the mother, the vivid colouration
in the mouth diminishes to a dark mauve.
Gurvin evolved on Ofilaq (Folgore sector 0305) in
orbit around a blue-white main sequence star which
radiates significant amounts of UV radiation. To protect
themselves from UV damage, Gurvin produce oil from
glands in the pits of their arms and intermediary limbs.
The oil contains oxybenzone and octinoxate, which
absorbs UV radiation harmlessly. The oil is spread
across the fur through grooming with either the hands
or a grooming tool. The oil has the secondary benefit of
giving Gurvin fur its striking sheen.

THE GURVIN

Internally, Gurvin possess two hearts – the primary
located in the upper chest cavity between the upper
arms and a secondary heart in the lower. Freshly
oxygenated blood is pumped around the body by the
primary heart and blood depleted of oxygen is pumped
to the lungs by the secondary heart.

Gurvin do not possess a stomach. Instead, food is
delivered from an oesophagus analogue directly into an
intestinal structure which acts as a combined small and
large intestine. Organs that perform similar functions to
kidneys, liver and appendix are attached directly to the
intestine, remove waste products and deliver them to
an organ near the tail’s base. A single vent at the tip of
the tail is used to eliminate waste.

143

