T

Gurvin possess two sexes and are a sexually dimorphic
species. Females are approximately 1.75 metres long
from muzzle to tail and weigh around 90 kilograms.
Males are somewhat shorter at 1.55 metres‑, have a
lighter build and commonly weigh no more than 70
kilograms. In addition to being shorter and slighter
than females, male Gurvin are only approximately half
as intelligent. Although sentient, males are decidedly
lacking in creativity and reasoning ability.
Male Gurvin have bony processes on the outside
of the forearms of both pairs of upper limbs, which
seasonally grow and shed into wicked blades in the
style of antlers. In the past, the antlers were used
to fight other males to impress females with their
suitability as a strong mate. Modern Gurvin no longer
perform this ritual and the antlers have become little
more than an item of adornment. In a typical display of
Hiver squeamishness when it comes to violence, male
Gurvin are required to trim their arm antlers to the nub
when away from Gurvin worlds.
Gurvin only mate to reproduce. A female Gurvin
comes into heat once every Ofilaq year. During this
period, she gives off pheromones which indicate she
is ready to reproduce. Once female Gurvin produce
young, they do not come into heat again until the
young are weaned.
The reproduction organs of Gurvin are completely
internal in both sexes. The genital opening is located
between the legs, a sphincter-like structure hidden
from view by fur. Mating is performed by pressing the
two openings together in a ‘kiss’.

LIFESPAN

THE GURVIN

Gurvin have a gestation period lasting approximately
11 months, resulting in the birth of two to four young.
Gurvin can give birth without any outside assistance,
except for medical complications.

144

Births are generally balanced between male and
female offspring. Gurvin young are born remarkably
undeveloped and helpless despite their long
gestational period. They are furless and their eyes
and ears are sealed closed. They require intensive
care during the first three months of their life, needing
almost constant attention from their mother. In the
past, male Gurvin routinely killed young they had
not sired to force the female into oestrus. While
such infanticide no longer occurs, mothers remain
aggressively protective of their young and will not
allow any adult male near the young at this stage.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Mothers remain with their young until they are three
months of age and their eyes and ears open. The
bodies of the young are now covered in light fuzz, which
continues to grow into a full coat of fur over the next
nine months. The young can crawl about and move on
their own. They also start speaking their first words.
At six months, mothers will take their young to meet the
rest of the family and the adult males become involved
in childrearing duties. At this point in their development,
young Gurvin begin to walk upright and string simple
sentences together. They can eat on their own from
pre-masticated food provided by their parents. This
process will continue until the young are a year old and
their teeth have grown, at which point they can chew
their food. It is not unusual for mothers to continue
masticating their young’s food for another year.
Gurvin young remain in the care of their parents until
they reach the age of 16, when they are sexually
mature but are not yet considered adults. There is no
social pressure for the sexually mature Gurvin to leave
the family unit. It is not unusual for Gurvin to be with
their family unit until they form their own family units.
Gurvin are in their prime from the age of 16 to 45.
Females have an average lifespan of approximately 90
standard years, assuming they have access to modern
medicines. Average male life expectancy is shorter
at 65 standard years. Just like many other species,
anagathics can significantly lengthen this lifespan.

DIET

Gurvin are omnivores and enjoy a range of foods,
although they slightly prefer animal proteins over
plant-based foods. Females who have unweaned
young develop a craving for a diet favouring animal
proteins over plant-based matter due to the nutritional
demands of producing a milk-analogue.
Meals are often prepared communally to be enjoyed by
the entire family unit. Meal preparation includes cooking
the raw ingredients via various methods, including
frying, baking, searing and stewing. Gurvin taste buds
are highly refined and rarely use sauces or additional
seasonings on their food, finding such additions distract
them from the natural flavours of their food.
Gurvin have a strong sweet tooth. It is not unusual for
meals to be accompanied by at least one sweet dish.
Interestingly, Gurvin have a reduced capacity to taste
sweet flavours, so most desserts they eat tend to be
sickeningly sweet for many other species.

R

