Gurvin can consume Terran food without any problems
and vice versa. Gurvin have gained quite a taste for
some Terran foods. Octopus, frogs, shellfish and
grasshoppers are rare delicacies among Gurvin. Ice
cream and custard are highly favoured by them and
always fetch a high price in trade.

PSYCHOLOGY

When the Gurvin were first discovered by the Hivers,
they were somewhat aggressive. This manifested
primarily in territory acquisition. If another group of
Gurvin happened to possess the desired territory,
males would fight for its ownership.
The Hivers found this aggression a highly immature
and undesirable trait they could foresee becoming
problematic as the Gurvin developed and ultimately
spread into space. In typical Hiver fashion, they
set about manipulating female Gurvin to channel
their aggression into a more desirable and helpful
avenue for the Hivers.
This came in the form of channelling Gurvin
predilection for gathering territory into one of economic
pursuits, particularly a desire to generate money.
The manipulation was subtle, and expected to last a
significant period before complete, but time has never
prevented the Hivers from undertaking a manipulation.

The acquisition of wealth also extends to material
possessions, leading female Gurvin self-worth to
be based on what she owns. Female Gurvin openly
display their wealth in a gaudy fashion some other
species find particularly vulgar.

Female Gurvin possess an adventurous streak which
is not present in males, particularly in obtaining greater
wealth. Gurvin traders have an uncanny ability to
show up at a market, whether a trading post on a
Federation world or a starport on the Solomani trailing
frontier, with just the right cargo in current short supply
and high demand, extracting every advantage from
it. Gurvin negotiation is called ‘ninja math’, because
there are always invisible factors sneaking around in
the calculations that do not leap out until it is too late
to back out of the deal. It is worth noting the Ninja
numbers always favour the Gurvin.
While female Gurvin have had their aggressive
tendencies redirected to the accumulation of
wealth, there was little need to curb the demand for
aggression in the males. They act as the females
direct. When left to their own devices, males acted
largely on an instinctive level, that being the primary
hunter and protector of the family.

SOCIETY
Taking the female Gurvin view of wealth and
possession into account, it is no surprise that Gurvin
society is centred around the concept of turning a profit.
They possess a convoluted set of rules that govern
their business ventures and impact their daily lives.
Almost all interactions involve money transfer and
bribery is a normal part of everyday interactions.

MATRIARCHY

Females dominate Gurvin society. Their culture
is highly philogynist and matriarchal. They sit in
every position of power. They run the government,
businesses, corporations and households. As
such, Gurvin cultural norms reflect and deeply
institutionalise philogyny and discrimination.
Family lineage is viewed from the female line. Gurvin
believe a child can always tell who their mother is
but their father could be anyone. Inheritance is also
distributed through female descendants, with males
rarely receiving anything.

THE GURVIN

Modern female Gurvin have a great love, some would
say obsession, with the generation of money. They
are stereotypically money-oriented and have a fixation
on solid cash. Wealth is a primary motivating force
for them and nothing gives them more pleasure than
generating a good profit. Female Gurvin merchants
work in the Federation’s mercantile concerns and
often serve as brokers, pursers and quartermasters
under Hiver officers on Federation vessels. Familyoperated free traders ply the trade lanes within the
Federation and almost all foreign trade is undertaken
by Gurvin. If supply needs matching to demand there
is a Gurvin who will arrange it, but she will demand
money for doing so and typically lots of it.

This desire for wealth and material possessions leads
to Gurvin refusing to do anything altruistically. They
believe everything has a price to be met before goods
or services are traded. This extends into all aspects
of Gurvin life. Even the production of a family is seen
as a means to enhance future wealth accumulation,
with offspring eventually bringing more money into the
family before starting a family of their own.

145

