T

Gurvin males are barred from most aspects of society,
except operating as devoted servants in the industrial,
agriculture and entertainment fields. They are not
permitted to vote; they have very little part in state
affairs, except for appearing as ‘geisha boy’ consorts
at the side of female leaders.
Males are thought of as inferior to females in almost
every way. They are unable to function adequately
without female supervision. They are prone to bicker
and indulge in domination asserting aggressive
displays when left to their own devices. While males
are not seen as chattel, they are most certainly seen
as being the responsibility of their female. It is not
legal for males to be sold, as such, but it is expected
for a female to offer a suitable dowry to the family of a
male she intends to marry.
Males are not permitted to own possessions. Everything
they have is provided for them by their female. They
are never trusted with handling money or any financial
matters, as they do not have the intellectual capacity to
undertake such functions shrewdly.
Psychologically and intellectually, male Gurvin are
not equal to females. While this may be distasteful for
other species, for Gurvin it is a simple matter of biology.
Males cannot be expected, nor are they permitted,
to operate independently and, therefore, must be
supervised by females. In some ways, Male Gurvin are
treated by females as favoured pets and in other ways
as domesticated working animals.

FAMILY

THE GURVIN

Gurvin families typically consist of a matriarch, her
husband or husbands, and their children below the age
of adulthood. Gurvin indulge in polyandry, with females
having several husbands. Regardless of who the father
of any young is, the children are all treated as the
offspring of all the husbands in the family group.

146

Husbands are not equal to their wife in the family.
There is no formal ranking system among the
husbands in a family group, although they will vie
among themselves for the favour of their wife. They do
not make any decisions or routinely have any input in
the decision-making process.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Children born to the family are essentially helpless for
the first year of their lives and traditionally their mother
steps away from public life while the young demand
intense care. In the past, this proved somewhat
problematic, as the mother’s financial and business
affairs were left to their own devices. The advent of the
Information Age has allowed mothers to continue caring
for their young while maintaining their other obligations.
Once the young are no longer entirely dependent on
the mother, generally at six to 12 months, their care is
shared between their mother and their fathers.
Female Gurvin children attend school from the
ages of three to 16, where they learn the basics of
mathematics, business management, economics and
the intricacies of supply and demand. Their mothers
closely monitor their education. Male young also attend
school but this is more of a vocational education which
only lasts until they are 12 years old, at which point
they enter the workforce as an apprentice under the
guidance of an adult male.
At 16 years of age, Gurvin children are sexually
mature. Despite their sexual maturity, Gurvin are not
yet considered adults in the eyes of society. Females
may continue their education by attending university
or entering the workforce and furthering their
education directly through occupation.

MARRIAGE
Gurvin marriage has no basis in any religious
institution whatsoever. The terms’ marriage’,
‘wife’ and ‘husband’ are used here to identify
their relationship. A male Gurvin is considered
married to a female once his dowry price is
provided to his family. Marriage is not thought
to be binding until the death of either partner. It
is not unusual for a wife to trade a husband for
another suitable dowry price. Marriage in and of
itself holds little value to female Gurvin except
as a means to establish a dynasty. Males may
be traded and swapped as needs fit. This is not
to say females do not become attached to their
males. On the contrary, some females become
so attached to particular males they will not
part with them for any reason, or at the very
least until a suitably, that is, very expensive,
compensatory dowry is offered.

R

