Before they are considered adults, female Gurvin
must repay the expenses their mother accrued while
they were being reared. During this period, females
will continue to live in the family unit. Their income
goes towards supporting the family and paying their
debt to their mother. Once the debt is settled, female
Gurvin are free to leave home, marry and start a
family, business or enterprise.
Male Gurvin are not expected to repay the cost
of their rearing before being considered adults.
Instead, they are considered adults once they join
another female’s family as a husband and a dowry
price is gifted to his mother as restitution for the
expenses incurred in his upbringing.
Regardless of age, female Gurvin are always
considered a part of their mother’s family, regardless
of having a family of their own. Male Gurvin, on the
other hand, cut all ties with their mother’s family
when they marry and are considered a member of
their new family group solely.

COMMUNITY
Gurvin communities follow a similar organisation to
the family unit. While Gurvin have experimented with
different formats for communities, they prefer one with
a degree of democracy, generally through elected
representatives who serve to act for the group.
Generally, each Gurvin community is led by a group of
elected females. These females are normally drawn
from those who have successful business enterprises
or industries. Gurvin believe an individual who shows
success through the growth of wealth in their chosen
field would be likewise as successful in leading the
community. This is a logical conclusion, as Gurvin
organise and run their governments and communities
as if they were a conglomeration of business.

By their very nature, many Gurvin businesses are
family affairs, sometimes run by the same family for
generations. Some highly successful businesses can be
traced through the same family to pre-spaceflight Ofilaq.
Such are held in high regard by the Gurvin and are a
source of aspiration for young Gurvin entrepreneurs.
Gurvin communities provide no welfare support for
those unable to care for themselves. There is no
unemployment or disability benefit, free education or
universal healthcare. Adult individuals are expected
to care for and support themselves and their family.
The community is not responsible for caring for or
supporting the individual and champions those who
can fend for themselves.
Adults who cannot fend for themselves are normally
the responsibility of businesses who see to their care.
The recipient of such care is still expected to pay for
services, typically working within their limited capacity.
Unsurprisingly, Gurvin societies tend to have some
of the lowest incidences of unemployment and
homelessness throughout Charted Space. However,
this has nothing to do with their charitable nature.

GROOMING
Grooming holds a special place in Gurvin society.
Besides the obvious benefits of grooming, such
as removing dirt, dry skin and insects from the fur,
grooming is how Gurvin relax and bond with each other.
Grooming also serves the vital function of spreading
UV-resistant oils produced by glands under the upper
pairs of limbs throughout the fur, protecting them from
the harmful radiations of their homeworld’s sun.
Originally, grooming was performed with bare
hands and face, with the Gurvin either grooming
themselves or another. Primitive Gurvin developed
tools to assist in grooming before hunting tools,
quickly replacing bare-handed grooming.
Grooming begins when Gurvin are still babies. At
first, only their mother grooms them but as they
grow older, the young learn to do so to themselves
and each other for comfort and strengthen their
sibling bonds. Once fathers become involved in child

THE GURVIN

Community infrastructure and services are operated
as independent businesses, with no input from the
government. If those businesses fail to succeed
or do not provide the required services, their
customers will turn to another that will. This method
of organisation is used to run most services usually
run by a government, including emergency services,
healthcare, education, sanitation and so forth. It is
not unusual for an agency, such as sanitation, run
as a single entity by other species, to be owned and
operated by several businesses in a given Gurvin

community. A significant divergence of this structure is
the police force. The government is responsible for the
safety of its citizens and the police are one of the very
few public services seen in Gurvin communities.

147

