T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

after their first telling. Initially, the stories were told by
adults and addressed themes such as wealth-building,
religion, society and politics. They later came to be
used as ethical guides for children’s education. The
tales are now enjoyed by modern Gurvin, both adult
and child, through depictions in novels, plays, holovids,
songs, sculptures and paintings.
All heroes and fools in the tales are believed to have
once existed or still exist to the present day. In truth,
many of the main characters may have some basis.
However, all have been exaggerated and compounded
upon, making the characters larger than life and,
in some cases, capable of actions far beyond what
other species would consider believable. The tales
all teach lessons regarding the important values and
principles of Gurvin, particularly the methods and rules
surrounding gathering wealth.
Cultural heroes always exemplify the primary drive
of all female Gurvin to build wealth or the braveness
of male Gurvin in protecting and providing for their
wives and families. Cultural fools show the folly of
female Gurvin turning away from the drive to build
wealth or male Gurvin attempting to achieve more
than they are capable of.
rearing, they groom the young and teach appropriate
etiquette. This behaviour continues as the young
grow into adulthood. Parents will groom their young,
husbands will groom their wives and each other, and
females will groom other females who have a higher
status within the community.

THE GURVIN

It is common for female Gurvin involved in business
deals or political manoeuvring to groom each other to
smooth social interactions. Social grooming assists in
identifying ties of leadership and relationship and is
used to show supplication and ease anxiety. Grooming
is also used to maintain friendly relations among family
and community members.
Grooming can include any number of individuals of
different ages and genders. It can last from a few
seconds as a ritualised greeting to minutes as a
method to resolve disagreements or seal a deal, to
hours during intense business or political negotiations.

BELIEFS
Gurvin have a strong story-telling tradition extolling the
successes and follies of cultural heroes and cultural
fools. Many of the tales originated in oral traditions from
the past and were not transcribed for several centuries

148

One of the most beloved cultural heroes is LeleSeck. Her tales are told to children and adults alike,
appearing in secular and religious circles. Her
adventures usually revolve around how she cleverly
clinches a deal or makes a significant amount of money
through a successful trade or by outsmarting others
who wish to stop her in one underhanded manner or
another. Her tales have often been compared to those
told by the Solomani of a Terran rabbit from the ‘Deep
South’ who frequently outsmarted a bear and a fox.
Gurvin have developed a multitude of religions,
the majority preaching the values of accumulating
wealth. There is no universal belief amongst the
Gurvin regarding a soul or afterlife. A minority of
Gurvin have even turned to the religions of other
species in their search for spirituality.
The species has rarely turned to armed conflict over
their religious beliefs. In contrast, they tend to adopt
and adapt the beliefs of other religions to their own. In
this manner, several Gurvin religions have achieved a
statistically large number of followers. Other religions
could be best described as little more than cults.
A selection of the most well-known Gurvin religions
are detailed here.

R

