Kree Drikak au Wani: An ancient religion, Kree Drikak
au Wani, or the ‘Celestial Office of the Divine Mogul’,
is thousands of years old. Its origin can be traced
back to the earliest civilisation on Ofilaq and shows
clear evidence of having absorbed at least three other
religions throughout its history. The religion is highly
focused on the accumulation of wealth.
Kree Drikak au Wani embraces many different
goddesses but most followers are henotheistic,
meaning they worship a single deity, known as SpeWratha, or the Divine Mogul. Other goddesses are
also recognised, who each preside over a particular
aspect of wealth accumulation. The goddesses are all
connected through a web of blood and financial ties but
all answer ultimately to the Divine Mogul, who is seen
as the head or Chief Executive of the Pantheon.
Followers make offerings to goddesses based on what
they wish to achieve. For example, when starting a
new business endeavour, followers will pray and make
offerings to Tra-Pankif, the goddess of successful
business ventures, to ensure all goes well. They may
also pray to Nea-Leld, the goddess of attracting money
through sound decisions, or Kan-Welky, the goddess of
clearing obstructions to building wealth. Alternatively,
they may make an offering to the Divine Mogul directly.
As seen, followers believe they can attract the blessings
or favours of multiple deities for the same endeavour.
Offerings to the goddesses are always in the form
of monetary donations to a temple or shrine of the
appropriate goddess. The offering is given to a
priestess of the temple, who will accept the offering
from the supplicant in exchange for praying to the
goddess on their behalf. Naturally, the priestess
will take a percentage of the offering for herself as
payment for her services and the rest goes into the
temple coffers. Temples, like almost everything else in
Gurvin society, are businesses.

Followers of Kree Drikak au Wani do not believe in
an afterlife as such. Instead, they believe the soul of
an individual is divided amongst her offspring in the
form of both reincarnation and spiritual immortality.
By not having children, followers believe their soul
cannot continue after death and is forever written off
as a ‘loss’ by the Divine Mogul.
The priestesses of Kree Drikak au Wani are also
responsible for the execution of the faithful’s last
will and testimony. The priestess of Raa-Spul, the
goddess of rightful inheritances, performs this
task. Followers routinely request the priestesses to
oversee their estate upon their death and ensure
the deceased’s wealth is fairly distributed to their
female decedents. Naturally, the priestess takes a
percentage of the estate as her service fee.
Koo oeo Tramup ea: Almost as popular as Kree
Dricak au Wani, Koo oeo Tramup ea shares some of
the same beliefs as the more popular religion but its
differences are telling.
Loosely translated as The Way of Divine Ascendance,
Koo oeo Tramup ea holds the Divine Mogul as the
supreme deity. She created the universe, the world
and all life. She made the Gurvin in her image. While
the religion is open to everyone, Gurvin remain the
majority of followers. The Gurvin are the Divine Mogul’s
‘chosen’ but other sophonts may join the chosen ranks
by adhering to the tenants of the faith.
A core principle of the faith is the belief in an eternal
soul or spirit which lives on after death. The soul’s
destiny depends on the wealth the individual gained
in life. The wealth is used to purchase a place in the
Vixaklim Tohee or Celestial Board. The souls of those
who die without enough wealth are doomed to the
Kanskeu Raspuul or the Floors of Labour.

THE GURVIN

The religion has no single central authority. Temples
can and do have subsidiary temples and shrines which
operate like franchises. Each temple is led by a high
priestess who, as mentioned earlier, operates the
temple as a business. New priestesses are trained in
temples by established priestesses. Once they have
completed their training, a new priestess may remain
employed by the temple which taught her, purchase a
franchise temple from the high priestess, or undertake
the establishment of her independent temple.

Kree Drikak au Wani has no regular services the
laity is expected to attend. Instead, temples may be
visited freely but entrance always involves a fee.
Within the temple, followers may undertake personal
worship or seek the assistance of a priestess.
Instead of services, each goddess has several
festivals attributed to her throughout the year. The
most popular festivals can draw crowds of thousands
where offerings are made to the celebrated goddess
and followers receive blessings from priestesses.

149

