T

Upon death, the faithful believe the Divine Mogul
judges them. In her ledger is a record of everything
the Gurvin has gained and everything she has lost.
If the gain outweighs the loss, she is granted entry
into the Celestial Board, where she is rewarded with
a position in the Celestial Executive for the rest of
eternity. If the loss is greater, her soul is cast into
Floors of Labour to work and hopefully earn enough to
pass into the Celestial Board.
The religion stipulates how wealth can be made so
it may be tallied to her advantage in the afterlife.
The Gurvin must not build her wealth through theft.
Conversely, the faith holds in high-standing smart
trading, monopolising desired goods and services,
manipulating markets and creating tight and crafty
contracts. The religion champions capitalism and
entrepreneurship, lauding the discovery of new markets
and the formation of monopolies.
The faithful are under no obligation to make offerings
of wealth to the Divine Accountant. They make
offerings of wealth to the priestess of the faith, who
provide their blessings in return. Blessings are
sought for many occasions, such as the birth of
offspring, a new marriage, a newly paid debt, the
beginning of a new endeavour and so on.

THE GURVIN

An ‘area’ can be as small as a single town or as
large as an entire planet. As in Kree Drikak au Wani,
there is no one authority which leads the religion.
Instead, the high priestesses of the temples in an
area hold annual conferences, where the state of
the faith is discussed, conflicts resolved and new
canon is established. Once every 10 years, the high
priestesses in the Hive Federation come together in a
grand conference on the Gurvin homeworld.

150

Kree Drikak au Wani funerary rites are unusual.
Traditionally, Gurvin are cremated with their wealth.
It is believed the cremated wealth is used to provide
a comfortable afterlife. Traditionally, all of a Gurvin’s
wealth was destroyed in a funerary pyre. It was not
unusual for her surviving husbands to be cremated
with her – voluntarily or involuntarily. Most modern
Gurvin societies have outlawed the practice of living
husband immolation as barbaric. Instead, idols of
living husbands are made of flammable materials are
burned instead. Similarly, the funerary destruction of
wealth has been replaced with burning replicas made
of combustible materials.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Oo Giphlan Dia: A cult more than a religion, Oo
Giphlan Dia is otherwise known as the Children of
the Star God. Founded shortly after the Hivers first
contacted the Gurvin, a belief developed regarding the
Hivers being the direct agents of the god Maslanuud,
the cosmic manipulator. Followers believed the cosmic
manipulator of the Hivers would guide them towards
the final manipulation, an apocalypse that remakes the
universe into an eternal paradise.
There is some argument to support the theory that the
Hivers created the cult themselves to manipulate the
Gurvin. No records indicate such an event occurred
and when questioned about the matter, Hivers
vehemently deny it. Regardless of the origin, some
Hiver groups during early contact saw the formation of
the religion as advantageous, allowing them to enact
the roles of divine emissaries with the express purpose
of swiftly bringing about changes within Gurvin society.
Regardless of any Hiver involvement, the situation
becomes out of hand. The cult began acting on its
own. Gurvin believers attributed almost everything to
Hiver intervention. Factions of the cult adopted blood
sacrifice to appease the Hivers, while others undertook
crusades to bring unbelievers into the fold. Countless
atrocities were committed in the Hivers’ name.
Cult members used masks made to resemble the
Hiver primary limbs, so they deceived the cosmic
manipulator into believing they were its emissaries.
They hoped the cosmic manipulator would reveal its
plans directly, allowing them to bring about the eternal
paradise themselves. Cult rites were performed
in silence, the cultists ‘chanting’ using Hiver sign
language instead of their voices.
Once the Hivers realised what had happened, they
swiftly ended the matter. The results were not subtle
– they calmly stated the beliefs were an affront to
them. The Hivers made it plain they were under no
divine mandate and any inference to the contrary
had no basis in truth.
For the large part, the Hivers intercession succeeded
but not before Ofilaq was plunged into its only
religious war. The cult was outlawed everywhere.
Those found guilty of perpetuating the tenets of Oo
Giphlan Dia were heavily fined beyond bankruptcy
and forced into hard labour to pay their fines. For the
wealth-obsessed Gurvin, this was enough incentive
for believers to recant their faith openly so they could
return to regular society.

R

