Publicly, the cult of Oo Giphlan Dia was eradicated
and consigned to history as an unfortunate and bloody
chapter in Gurvin history. While not proud of it, the
Gurvin do not shy away from teaching this aspect of
their history as an abject lesson in how zealotry can
turn even the most level-headed Gurvin.
The cult continued in secret. Pockets of the faithful
took their cult underground to be practised in secret. In
this manner, the cult continued to exist in small groups
on Ofilaq – each cell existing as an independent unit
with only a few members. The cult eventually spread
offworld to other planets and other species but was
never able to achieve a powerful following again,
thanks to its outlawed status. Oo Giphlan Dia enjoyed
a brief resurgence during the K’Kree-Hiver War, but as
in the past it was not tolerated and swiftly eradicated
once the war concluded.
In truth, nobody knows if the cult still exists or if it has
faded away only to haunt the memories of the living.
In some ways, the fear of the cult has far outgrown
its reality, as it has become the source of fearmongering and conspiracy theories. Mothers use the
cult to scare their children and the mentally unhinged
see its manipulations everywhere. Hivers deny the
cult’s existence, stating categorically it ceased to
exist hundreds of years ago.

GOVERNMENT
Gurvin have experimented with a few forms of
government but tend to favour democracies of one
form or another. Gurvin prefer limited governments
which unconditionally ban the use of force and
coercion, including fraud, with little or no economic
interventionism such as regulation and subsidies.
Governments generally rely on businesses to selfregulate and a free market to drive competition.

Gurvin governments rarely institute income taxes,
as they view this as damaging welfare by penalising
production. Instead, they institute a tax on land
rent to cover government expenditure. This form of
taxation leads to some interesting situations where
non-Gurvin businesses maintain production plants
on Gurvin planets as a form of tax evasion – which
Gurvin naturally highly admire.
Only female Gurvin are permitted to run for
government positions. Politicians tend to be wealthy
business owners who can afford to run for political
office and cover the expenses of an election
campaign. This has led to governments becoming
plutocracies, where governance is restricted to the
wealthy. In many respects, this is indeed the case –
Gurvin hold business success in very high regard
and believe if Gurvin can run a successful business,
she will be able to run a successful government.
Male Gurvin are permitted to be employed in the
government but these positions are unilaterally minor
with no decision-making responsibilities.

LAW
As would be expected of a species that places great
emphasis on gaining personal wealth, Gurvin laws
are strongly biased towards protecting property. Other
laws are quite lax for the most part, except in cases of
fraud, coercion and force. Theft and fraud are the two
most serious crimes to Gurvin sensibilities and draw
the most severe punishments. Laws protecting against
theft and fraud are long and complex – even conspiring
to commit theft or fraud is a serious crime.
The use of coercion and force sit just below the
previously mentioned crimes in seriousness.
Freedom, the right to pursue their own agenda
and freely earn and gain wealth, are considered
fundamental rights to Gurvin and strongly protected
by law. Any act which moves to restrict an individual
from exercising those rights is severely punished.

THE GURVIN

Some outsiders believe this system leads to a
disregard for quality, durability, sustainability, respect
for the environment and sophonts, and a lack of
morality as companies naturally aim to maximise profits
at the expense of workers and broader social interests.
Gurvin argue that under their system, relationships
between companies and workers are purely voluntary
and mistreated workers will seek better treatment
elsewhere. Companies compete for workers based
on pay, benefits and work-life balance just as they
compete with one another in the marketplace on the
basis of cost and quality of goods.

The agencies customarily found within other
governments are lacking in Gurvin societies. Instead,
the functions of government agencies are privatised.
The only agencies not tendered out include the
military and judiciary, which fall directly under the
control of the government. Everything else, from
waste removal, public transport, education and so on,
are owned and operated by private businesses with
little to no oversight by the government.

151

