T

Laws governing the inheritance of wealth are quite
complex. Female Gurvin invariably create a will as
soon as they begin earning their own wealth, which
is added to and reviewed throughout her life. The
will must be witnessed by at least two female Gurvin
unrelated to the will-maker and then endorsed by a
government official. A will, witnessed and endorsed
in such a manner, cannot be disputed. This is one of
the very few times the government is involved in an
individual’s wealth in Gurvin law.
A committee appointed by the government hears
Gurvin trials. The accused and the accuser may
represent themselves but more normally hire a
lawyer to act on their behalf. The accused party
is assumed guilty and must prove their innocence
before the appointed committee.

THE GURVIN

Punishments normally take the form of a fine paid to
the injured party or the government if there is none.
Once an individual fails to prove their innocence, both
parties begin negotiating an appropriate fine. The
government-appointed committee states the lowest
fine permissible by the law, from which the bargaining
begins. Once an agreement has been reached by both
the prosecution and defence, the fine is endorsed as
having been undertaken as stipulated in the law and
recorded by the government committee.

152

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE

Gurvin fur covers most of their body, providing
adequate protection in temperate environments. In
such environments, Gurvin have no requirement
for clothing. This has naturally led to the Gurvin
having no taboos regarding nudity. When amongst
themselves, Gurvin only wear clothing to protect them
from temperature or environmental extremes. They
understand other species may have taboos regarding
nudity and will wear clothing to avoid causing any
embarrassment when among them. In such cases,
Gurvin will adopt a simple style of a loose tunic
over loose pants or a poncho which extends to just
below the knees. Solid colours are normally chosen,
although Gurvin favour clashing tones over a matching
ensemble. They prefer light materials, which impart a
clear impression of wealth – the wealthier the Gurvin,
the more expensive the clothes. They rarely adopt any
footwear unless required for protection.
While clothing has a purely functional use in Gurvin
society, personal decoration is another matter – Gurvin
love nothing more than a prominent display of wealth
through jewellery and finery. Both females and males
wear headbands containing rare gems. Bracelets,
bangles and anklets are common, constructed of
valuable metals and decorated with gems. Finger,
toe and earrings are also very common, consisting of
valuable metals and gemstones.

Gurvin have very few gaols and those they do have are
reserved for criminals who cannot pay their fines. Gaols
are independent businesses and are nothing less than
indentured workshops. Inmates are forced to work off
their fines through labour of one form or another. Their
labour earns a wage, with which they must pay their
fine. Once the fine has been paid off, the prisoner must
pay for their expenses while incarcerated. Labour is
invariably low-skilled and often demeaning.

Females prefer slightly more subtle forms of jewellery
than males, whose jewellery tends towards far
bolder – and some would say ostentatious – designs.
Females often display wealth by lavishly adorning their
husbands, especially during the breeding season.
Traditionally, arm antler jewellery is common and
includes items such as cuffs, chains and piercings. Male
Gurvin love the attention their finery affords them and
are not above strutting about proudly when adorned.

While female Gurvin are subject to the full letter of the
law, male Gurvin are somewhat protected. As they
are less intelligent and capable than females, they are
legally the female’s responsibility to which they are
most closely related. In the case of married Gurvin,
wives are responsible for the actions of their husbands.
Single males are their mother’s responsibility, or in the
case of the mother being deceased, their eldest female
sibling. When a male Gurvin commits a crime, their
female relative is held responsible for his actions and is
treated as if she had committed the crime herself.

Gurvin enjoy many different art forms. The works of
well-known artists draw large crowds and can be worth
a significant number of credits. Their creations can even
be known in the broader Hive Federation and sometimes
beyond. Gurvin artworks are rare in the Third Imperium
but have attracted a small and select group of collectors
willing to pay handsomely for favoured pieces.
Painting and drawing are common amongst Gurvin.
Before the advent of photography and holography,
portraiture, landscapes and still life were highly popular.
Once the ability to capture a subject’s likeness could
be achieved via artificial means in a far less labour-

R

