intensive way, their popularity waned. This led to a
revolution in Gurvin painting and drawing, culminating
in what modern critics call the Trans-Tech Abstract
Style, where artists create works that do not represent
external reality and are instead designed to elicit an
emotional response in the viewer.
Sculpture has followed a similar path as painting and
drawing, with abstract styles replacing realistic ones.
One type of sculpture bears mention here: olfactory.

Likewise, Gurvin performing arts generally mimic
the literary arts, focusing on the cultural heroes with
one exception: dance. Typically considered a male
art form, dance is used to tell stories or generate
pleasure. Dance forms vary from ancient traditional
styles to modern creations and fusions. The Gardraxa
Style is an ancient dance form typically described as
sensual and evocative, used in formal occasions for
female viewers. It is also performed at celebrations
of weddings, the sealing of business deals and other
important events. A contemporary version of the
style, called Gordraxa, is considered somewhat lewd,
uncouth and unsuitable for polite company.

THE GURVIN

Olfactory sculptures are designed to interact with the
sense of smell. Gurvin sense of smell is highly tuned
and can detect minor changes in scents. Olfactory
sculptures are usually quite large, with the smallest
occupying the space of a small room. Scents within the
sculpture are placed and emitted in a choreographed
fashion to generate a mental image and elicit emotional
responses. These sculptures are often highly complex,
causing strong reactions in Gurvin participants. Outside
a Gurvin audience, olfactory sculptures do not draw a
broad following. The scents tend to be far too subtle for
humans to differentiate between and most find them
more unpleasant or nauseating than enjoyable.

Gurvin literature serves a multitude of purposes, from
purely artistic to educational and spiritual. Almost
without exception, literature focuses on the escapades
of cultural heroes and their endeavours to gain wealth
or the follies of fools. While new tales are constantly
being authored, they are most often derivative of
previous works, only written in a different style or told
from other perspectives.

153

