T

An annual dance festival known as the Gipuma
Isuhaash, loosely translated as the ‘bachelor’s gambit’,
is celebrated by every Gurvin community. On the
Spring Equinox, bachelors and young males who have
just come of age dance for the attention of potential
mates. Bedecked in the finest jewellery and their fur
dyed in bright colours, male Gurvin dance competitively
against each other while females look on. If a female
is attracted to a male, she will tap them once on the
shoulder. The male then escorts the female to his
family to discuss a suitable dowry price for him. If all
goes as planned and the dowry price changes hands,
the pair are considered joined in marriage.
Gurvin evolved from ancestors who dug and lived in
underground dens. While modern Gurvin no longer
need to live underground, they feel a sense of
comfort and safety when they can dwell in a den-like
structure. Gurvin generally have no concern for their
habitats’ impact on the local environment and have
no issues damaging or destroying native habitats and
ecosystems for their own use.
Surface architecture is generally utilitarian, with
no thought for aesthetic or pleasing features.
Construction materials tend to be metals, ceramics
and polymers. Buildings are considered ugly and
unrefined by many other species. Doors and windows
are often circular or semi-circular and skylights
are common. Windows tend to be large, allowing
maximum natural light into the building.

THE GURVIN

Buildings are often grouped very closely together,
making Gurvin cities somewhat claustrophobic. Taller
structures are usually connected via corridors on
several levels, allowing occupants to move between
buildings easily without leaving them.

154

Gurvin do not generally separate residential areas from
business areas. Cities have no separate business,
industrial or residential districts. Gurvin prefer to
live close to where they work. It is the norm to find
residences interspersed with offices and manufacturing
spaces all in the same structure or built very closely
together. Open areas, such as parks and gardens, are
uncommon in Gurvin cities and those which do exist
are for purely necessary means and only accessible to
the public for a fee paid to the owner.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Gurvin residences and commercial buildings share
common internal styles – a central foyer from which
other rooms branch. In a commercial building, adjacent
rooms may be offices, production floors and the like. In
residences, additional rooms tend to be for personal use.
Bedrooms are communal. Gurvin do not have the
same sense of privacy as humans. The whole family
will generally share one room. The only exception to
communal sleeping is when a female Gurvin gives birth
or has helpless young. A separate maternity room is
part of every domicile where a mother may peacefully
give birth and keep her young until she is ready to
introduce them to the rest of the family.
Gurvin prefer to use a minimum of furniture. They
dislike chairs and prefer to sit on the floor on cushions.
Gurvin do not consider lounging on cushions to be rude
or disrespectful. Beds are only slightly raised off the
floor and covered with plush cushions and linen. Solid
furniture tends to be rounded in design with few sharp
edges. Tables and desks are built close to the ground.
Gurvin cities have a reputation for suffering from
significant pollution. With no laws regulating industrial
or domestic contamination, the only limitation is how
much residents and workers will accept before moving
away to more pleasant environments. Industries and
businesses will have little concern for polluting the
environment until they see a decline in the population
and workforce, which will result in a reduction of
polluting practices and a series of clean-up projects.
As a result, Gurvin cities can be smoggy and smelly,
waterways contaminated with low-level toxic waste and
large areas of natural habitat destroyed.
Advertisements festoon Gurvin buildings, hawking
everything from standard consumables to luxury
items to holiday destinations. The most common
are giant holo ads projected up and down the
sides of skyscrapers. Walkways, footpaths and
public transport stations are likewise full of holo
advertisements, shifting and changing as pedestrians
pass by, keyed by facial recognition and recent data
web searches. These advertisements add to the
general noise pollution of cities, making them not
only dirty and smelly but noisy too.

R

