RECREATION

Recreation is seen as just another business opportunity
to gain wealth amongst the Gurvin. Almost all
recreational activities have an associated cost and
some can be lucrative.
Gurvin love to gamble, which is almost a universal
pastime. It is said that Gurvin will bet on almost
anything. Casinos and gambling halls are standard
fixtures in Gurvin cities. Games of chance tend to
take the forms of card and dice games in casinos
but almost any form of a game can be found by a
persistent punter. In the past and on lower-tech planets,
animal races and fights are commonly gambled upon.
However, with the advent of advanced technology and
robotics, animals are frequently replaced with artificial
stand-ins which serve the same purpose.
Sports are generally not enjoyed by Gurvin, except for
a noted two – dancing and acrobatics. Husbands dance
for their wives, eligible bachelors dance to attract the
notice of potential spouses and boys dance for their
parents. Fathers also teach their sons the fine arts of
dance and acrobatics to assist them in finding wives,
while dance and acrobatics schools are available for
those who can afford them. Clubs, where male dancers
entertain a predominantly female audience, are typical
businesses wherever Gurvin are found.
Dancing and acrobatic competitions are also popular
on both a professional and amateur level. The
best dancers from these competitions can become
immensely popular, gaining huge followings and
achieving an almost cult-like status. The most
prestigious competition, the Gathat Games, is held
once every six years. The best dancers and acrobats
from the worlds of the Gurvin Democratic Republic
are ranked and randomly paired with each other to
compete for the prestigious title of Epara Aia Uaaua,
loosely translated as The Mover of Desire.

Gurvin also enjoy theatre and cinema. The subjects
of such entertainment are almost invariably the
tales of cultural heroes with strong moral lessons
regarding the gathering or earning of wealth. Theatre
or cinema which do not focus on these subjects
holds little interest for Gurvin, who see such things
as frivolous and a waste of time.

BUSINESS

Gurvin businesses are always owned, controlled and
operated by females. Interestingly, Gurvin companies
have relatively few directly employed individuals.
Instead, they tender positions to contractors who bid
for the role, with the person offering the best value
for money winning. A subcontractor may then tender
for more contractors to undertake aspects of the role
they have won. In this manner, a company or business
would consist of a few directly employed managers with
all other roles undertaken by contracted personnel.

THE GURVIN

Adult Gurvin enjoy smoking as a form of relaxation
and bonding. Smoking is performed individually and in
groups. Among the various substances smoked is the
highly favoured, mildly addictive mood-altering herb
native to Ofilaq called phlootau. The taste and smell
of phlootau smoke can be somewhat acrid, so Gurvin
add a flavouring substance to sweeten it. Smoking

substances are added to a hookah-like device, which
smooths the harshness of smoke by drawing it through
water. Modern Gurvin sometimes use an electronic
hookah which uses water vapour and the essential oils
of phlootau, instead of the traditional hookah.

155

