T

Gurvin do not possess any megacorporations but
several large corporations extend beyond the two
subsectors of the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic
Republic. Gurvin are the primary shareholders of
these corporations, although many have shares
owned by other species and companies. In particular,
Hivers have found it useful to support Gurvin
corporations through shareholding.
Gurvin corporation offices can be found primarily
within the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic but
some have offices which can be found throughout
the Hive Federation. Some even have offices
reaching beyond to Solomani, K’Kree and unaligned
space. Despite their wide territory, all large Gurvin
corporations have their headquarters within the
borders of the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic,
where they enjoy rather lax taxation laws.
Large Gurvin corporations contract sophonts in
the millions, showing no preference for any one
particular species over another except where
their talents are particularly useful. For example,
corporations prefer hiring Za’tachk as administrators,
accountants and clerks due to their cooperative
nature and obsession with details. Likewise, Ithklur
are employed in security roles due to their imposing
nature and willingness to utilise force to ensure the
safety of corporate property and staff.

THE GURVIN

Gurvin corporations generally operate in an air of
rational self-interest – the Hive Federation is a good
place to conduct business. They would want to do
nothing to disrupt the free market and laisse fair
capitalism deliberately. However, rivalries can spill over
into trade wars, or corporate leaders may come to act at
cross-purposes with a powerful Hiver nest. Corruption
within major corporations is also not unheard of either.

156

Some of the significant major corporations found in
the Hive Federation are:
Geopath General Trading: A general electronics,
trading house and shipping firm, Geopath General
Trading also indulges in speculative trade and
advertises itself as a supplier of rare and luxury items.
They have a large fleet of starships which ply the
space lanes across the Hive Federation. Geopath is
intensely competitive with Idigu Shipping for the rights
to particularly lucrative trade routes.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Idigu Shipping: Idigu Shipping specialises in the
transport of passengers and freight. They do not own
a fleet but subcontract to other shipping companies or
ship owners to carry cargo and passengers under their
flag. They experience stiff competition with Geopath
General Trading on lucrative trade routes but they hold
the upper hand in passenger services.
Lamuskshaash: Another general electronics firm,
Lamuskshaash manufactures avionics, computers,
robots and information retrieval systems. Their major
competitor in the electronics field is Geopath General
Trading, although they target their products at different
demographics. Lamuskshaash robots range from small
surveillance drones to heavy industrial automatons.
Mugimgu-Shikhegdi: Mugimgu-Shikhegdi began
as two separate companies, Mugimgu Shipyards,
which manufactured starships, and Shikhegdi, which
fabricated heavy vehicles. Mugimgu suffered some
spectacular financial losses due to several unfortunate
shipyard accidents, causing their profits to suffer
considerably. Shikhegdi offered a merger to save the
company, which Mugimgu accepted on the proviso they
maintained 51% of the stocks. Mugimgu-Shikhegdi
specialises in manufacturing heavy machinery,
including starships, vehicles and space habitats.
They have a reputation for producing sturdy and safe
products. Many larger starports in the subsectors
surrounding the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic
have a Mugimgu-Shikhegdi shipyard in orbit or dirtside.
Their vehicles are primarily intended for military or
heavy industry uses, although a line of luxury grav
vehicles are produced by Shikhegdi-Susami for their
more discerning client clients.
Moteton Mining: Starting on Iilregon (Folgore sector
1404), Moteton Mining began as a simple local asteroid
mining firm. The company struck it rich with a lucky
find of precious industrial metals and steadily grew in
size, absorbing several smaller mining firms. In a few
short decades, Moteton Mining had extended its reach
beyond Folgore sector and then to the surrounding
subsectors less than a century later. Moteton Mining
has expanded beyond asteroid mining and is now
interested in all forms of mining, from strip mining
to hydrogen mining. Moteton has a reputation for
aggressively protecting their interest and are known to
undertake hostile takeovers of companies they see as
standing in their way. Interestingly, Moreton Mining is
also interested in textiles, particularly artificial textiles
used in the construction and military fields.

R

