Phlotlalu Agronomics: Phlotlalu Agronomics
specialises in supporting agriculture in all its myriad
forms. They operate farms, provide agricultural
education, and manufacture agricultural vehicles
and robots. A major subsidiary company, Phlotlalu
Pharmaceuticals manufactures drugs and medicines.
Another subsidiary, Phlotlalu Genetics manufactures
genetically altered plants and animals. The company
experiences some competition from MugimguShikhegdi and, for some reason, Moteton Mining.

LANGUAGE

When the Hivers encountered the Gurvin, they were
taken by the coincidence that both species used
an ideographic script. The grammar of each was
regular and possessed a similar range of concepts.
Translation between the two scripts proved
relatively straightforward. Conveniently, the Gurvin
script also had a syllabary, so it became possible
for the first time to make Hiver pronounceable.
The Hivers set about adapting the Gurvin’s native
tongue for the Federation’s benefit.
Gurvin became the Federation language for several
reasons. It primarily filled the need for a readily
exportable tongue that could be tied to the Hivers.
Secondly, it provided well-travelled merchants with a
means to talk to strangers. Each word is short with a
single, unique and unambiguous meaning. There are
no synonyms and a quantitative measure, the degree
of similarity, replaced the concept of metaphor.
Gurvin’s small vocabulary is not entirely comprehensive
– some words have no Gurvin translation and many
awkward concepts are unavailable to the speaker.
The language is also wholly unsuited for creative
expression, so there is no poetry, whimsy or humour.

There is no record of primaeval Gurvin, so there is
a scholarly, sometimes heated debate about how
the Hivers changed the tongue to their ends. The
Federation regularises the language. Embassies
circulate a style guide to discourage local dialects.
Linguistics clubs review any spontaneously arising
usage and consider its utility to the language as
a whole. If a club finds the change productive,
it lobbies for its introduction. For example, the
Embassies Directorate promotes using the
consonant ‘z’, as most of the Federation’s member
species find the sound easy to pronounce.
This clearly illustrates the main problem with
Gurvin – it is not a living language. There are no
changes to it except via committee, so it lacks many
concepts important to other species and common
among the Major Races.

WRITTEN LANGUAGE

Unlike the Gurvin spoken language, its written
language is universally used in the Hive Federation.
While the Hivers would prefer their script to be used as
the official written form of Gurvin, it is not a popularly
held opinion. Hiver script is elegant, powerful and
inherently subtle – and unsuited for use with the Gurvin
language. Half of the Gurvin people cannot follow the
concept of Hiver script at all and the other half do not
understand the need to replace their written language.
Like their spoken language, Gurvin written language
is simple. It lacks nuance and subtlety, addressing
concepts directly and forthrightly. The script is a
syllabary which uses written symbols to present the
syllables and moras of spoken words. Each syllable
uses a single character, modified by the syllable
weight. These symbols are unique and not shared
with any other syllable in the language. While this
creates many symbols, the script is also easy to read
as each word is spelled as it sounds.

THE GURVIN

By removing redundant and inconvenient concepts
and replacing shades of meaning with quantities, the
Hivers made the language ideally suited for statistical
manipulation and modelling. Gurvin cannot express
the sentiment ‘less is more’ and would be counting the
method behind ‘no greater love than this’.

Despite its almost universal adoption within the Hive
Federation, the Ithklur defiantly clung to their language
and professed not to understand Gurvin. The Ithklur
language allows its speakers to deal with abstracts
and philosophical concepts and, importantly, to use
metaphors. For this reason, Ithklur pidgin is widely used
as an auxiliary to Federation Gurvin among species
who need the additional breadth of expression.

157

