GURVIN HISTORY
Genetic measurements have shown the lineage that
would lead to Gurvinosapien diverging from the line
that would lead to related species approximately 5.4
to 6.8 million years ago. They dwelled primarily in
deciduous forests where they would dig shallow dens
for shelter and to raise their young. Intelligence is
believed to have arisen as an immediate necessity
for females who were restricted to their dens while
they bore and raised young to direct males in hunting
and gathering. Anatomically modern Gurvin arose
in approximately -400000 and achieved behavioural
modernity in approximately -150000.
Archaeological evidence indicates Gurvinids used
simple wood and stone tools for millennia but as
time progressed, tools became more refined and
complex. By -500000, Gurvin began to use fire for
heat and cooking. During this period, language was
developed, as well as rituals such as the burial of
the dead and adornment of the living. Signs of early
artistic expression can be found in sculptures made
from simple natural materials. A climatic shift to a dryer
environment forced early Gurvin into a hunter-gatherer
lifestyle, following prey as it migrated with seasonal
changes. The change in climate is also believed to
have prompted further development of sophoncy.
Modern Gurvin spread rapidly across the continent
of Serskishsgha into Kidega and Dumidi in
approximately -50000. By -14000, Gurvin had
colonised nearly all habitable areas on Ofilaq.
The earliest forms of spirituality saw a rise during
this period. The forms of worship were directed to
the sun, moon, planet and sky. Not much is known
regarding the form these earliest examples of
spirituality took. However, some evidence indicates
that bartering or trading small valuable items was an
essential aspect of worship.

158

RISE OF CIVILISATION

By -12000, Gurvin had developed agriculture, allowing
them to forgo their nomadic lifestyle and begin creating
early settlements. Such settlements started small,
comprising only one or two family groups, but as the
understanding of agriculture increased, so did the
size of settlements. The domestication of several food
animal species was achieved by -10000. The first
signs of bronze use in the form of tools, weapons and
adornment can be dated to as early as -8000.
The development of agriculture and animal husbandry
led to food surpluses that could support Gurvin not
directly engaged in food production, leading directly
to denser populations and the formation of cities
and states. Cities became the centres of trade,
manufacturing and political power, leading to the rise of
the earliest civilisations. Early proto-cities appeared in
Magenissh and Ulase around -7000.
The first true city-states developed in approximately
-5550 in the central and coastal regions of
Serskishsgha, namely in the Lalaka Highlands, Sakkiba
Valley and along the Niirdali River. Anonoo, located
in the Lalaka Highlands, is believed to be the first
complex civilisation. In these cities, the earliest forms of
writing appeared around -4800.
These earliest civilisations led to the rise of territorial
states and empires. In the Lalaka Highlands, there had
been a prevailing pattern of waring independent citystates with a loose oligarchy of leaders shifting from
one city to another. The cause of most conflict was
over territory. Female Gurvin saw the need to control as
many regions as possible to indicate wealth and power.
By -4200, the Lalaka Highlands were unified into a
single polity known as the Rannili Empire.

