Similar empires arose in the Sakkiba Valley, dominated
by the City-States of Agiira and the Douai Empire
along the Niirdali River. The three empires alternated
between periods of peaceful trade and open conflict
over territory for 150 years. None of the three
civilisations achieved any great dominance over the
other. Struggles of territory ownership continued
unabated, with borders shifting and changing
constantly. The proximity of these early empires
allowed the sharing of religions and beliefs.
During this period, structured religion took the place
of earlier worship. The religion of Kree Drikak au Wani
originated in Agiira – each city-state had its own set
of patron deities but all the deities of every city were
united in a single pantheon. Similarly, the religion of
Koo oeo Tramup ea saw its birth in the Douai Empire
and spread across the continent as the empire
spread. Many other religions were developed in this
period. Some were absorbed into other religions,
while others rose and fell as their favour waxed and
waned. Archaeological evidence has shown that faith
was rarely a reason for armed conflict among early
civilisations. The Gurvin of this period were more likely
to absorb and adopt differing religious beliefs rather
than see them as opposing views.

Elsewhere on Ofilaq, most Gurvin societies remained
simple and fragmented into diverse regional cultures.
Some were content to remain in small tribal groups
and continue a nomadic lifestyle, whilst others settled
into small villages that traded for essential goods
and services. The sparks of greater civilisation would
occasionally arise but for unknown reasons, they never
subsisted for long before fading away.
Gurvin civilisation began to spread beyond the
Serskishsgha region, contacting less advanced
cultures. Some were absorbed into the larger empires,
while others were exterminated and their lands
occupied. This pattern of expansion and absorption,
warfare and trade may have continued unabated
except for a major event which would forever change
the course of Gurvin history – contact with the Hivers.

ARRIVAL OF THE HIVERS

An exploratory Hiver vessel arrived in the Ofilaq system
and discovered the Gurvin in -4050. No initial contact
was made then, as the Hivers wished to proceed
carefully. The Hivers studied the Gurvin for a decade
to gain an understanding of them before physical
contact was made. During this period, they learnt of the
Gurvin’s aggressiveness in obtaining territory and made
plans to divert the drive into more acceptable avenues.

Gurvin History
159

