T

Coincidently, the major Gurvin religions saw a form of
reformation. Gods which were involved in the earning
of monetary wealth rose in significance, while the
areas of interest of other gods evolved into various
aspects of obtaining prosperity. The structure of
divine hierarchies also changed into something more
resembling a board of directors managing a business
rather than a pantheon of individual gods concerned
only with their portfolios. Similarly, the Empires of
Rannili and Douai, the City-States of Agiira, saw a
political upheaval as their governance changed from
dictatorships to republics. Precisely what the catalyst
was for these broad societal changes is not clearly
understood. No doubt the Hivers were involved
somehow but as is typical with Hiver recorded
history, the truth is difficult to ascertain.
In -4040, the Hivers made their first physical contact
with the Gurvin. Initial contact was made carefully but
it was a peaceful and welcomed event. The Hivers
presented themselves as generous benefactors
who wished to help the Gurvin grow and develop
as a species. The Hivers slowly introduced new
technological developments to the Gurvin, initially
raising them from TL1 to TL2 over a decade. The
introduction of innovations increased over time. Like
doting parents, the Hivers handed out new technology
when and how they felt the Gurvin were ready for it.
In 150 years, the Gurvin went from the bronze age
through the industrial revolution to the broadcast age.

Gurvin History

THE RISE OF OO GIPHLAN DIA

160

The uplifting of Gurvin society was not without
some growing pains. Shortly after Gurvin/Hiver
first contact, a new religion Oo Giphlan Dia was
founded. The proponents of the new faith believed
a supreme deity, Maslanuud the manipulator, had
sent the Hivers to the Gurvin to aid them in preparing
for the final manipulation when the universe would
be recreated into an eternal paradise. Hivers
were believed to be the direct representatives of
Maslanuud and were themselves of divine origin.
Some historical records indicate Hivers actively
encouraged Oo Giphlan Dia to ensure Gurvin saw them
as benefactors. Other records show that the Hivers
were concerned with the new religion and its potential

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

to cause harm. Regardless of the truth, the religion
readily spread among the Gurvin and quickly developed
the largest following of all faiths, extending from its
birthplace in Rannili to Douai, Agiira and beyond.
Unfortunately, the spread of Oo Giphlan Dia brought
some unforeseen problems. As the religion grew in
power, zealotry also grew. Unknown to the majority
of the priesthood, a disturbing movement was
developing among the temple hierarchy in Rannili –
Eenat-Oathisk, a zealous female Gurvin was plotting
to overthrow the current establishment and place
herself and her followers in power.
Eenat-Oathisk believed Maslanuud was the only true
god. All other ‘gods’ were nothing but evil entities bent
on disrupting Maslanuud’s plans. Those who did not
cease worshipping their false gods and embrace only
Maslanuud deserved nothing less than death.
The Eenat-Oathisk movement rapidly gained
momentum. As she advanced through the ranks of the
religion’s hierarchy, she placed into positions of power
within the faith those who subscribed to her beliefs.
She reached out to high-ranking members of society
and indoctrinated them into her beliefs.
In -3875, after 15 years of careful plotting and
manipulation, Eenat-Oathisk saw her chance to usurp
the hierarchy and launched her coup. Her followers
captured the religious and societal leaders who did not
subscribe to her dogma. She announced herself as the
Empress-Priestess of Rannili. She demanded all Gurvin
renounce their false gods and convert to Oo Giphlan
Dia. To punctuate her demands, she publicly sacrificed
the captured holy city in the name of Maslanuud, stating
that all other disbelievers would meet the same fate.
In other Gurvin cities, followers of Eenat-Oathisk stepped
forward in similar coups. Many attempts succeeded but
the coup in the Democratic Republic of Agiira failed,
leaving the city and religious leaders mostly alive.
An attempt at diplomacy was made. A delegation
of Hiver and Gurvin ambassadors from Agiira and
the other free cities was sent to barter for peace. All
were slaughtered publicly, with their heads returned
in a clear message that Eenat-Oathisk would not be
dissuaded from her ideals.

R

