Hiver psychohistorians could find no indication in their
formulae which indicated such an event would occur.
The Hiver nest responsible for uplifting Gurvin society
was summarily removed from the project and another
nest was given the responsibility. Immediately the
Gurvin’s new benefactors reviewed the psychohistoric
formulae provided by the disgraced nest and found a
subtle flaw in their calculations which, when followed
through logically, led to the current events inevitably
unfolding as they had.
With no other recourse left to them, the Gurvin
entered what they consider the most shameful period
of their history – a religious world war. Fortunately,
the Hivers had not introduced atomic power to the
Gurvin but the effects of a war waged at TL5 were
devastating enough. Hundreds of thousands of Gurvin
lost their lives in a conflict the Hivers tried desperately
to mitigate. The followers of Eenat-Oathisk were
fanatics, more than willing to die for what they
believed in, and had no hesitation in wiping out entire
populations of those who opposed them.
The war raged across the globe for eight years
before Eenat-Oathisk and her adherents were
defeated. The religion of Oo Giphlan Dia was
disbanded and its remaining followers driven
underground. Despite all the damage and deaths the
war had caused, it united Ofilaq into a democratic
united world government. Laws were enacted to
prevent a rise like Oo Giphlan Dia again – the
only laws of their kind. Recovery and rebuilding
commenced immediately. The Hivers assisted in the
recovery efforts, ensuring through their manipulations
the new world government was to their liking.

TO THE STARS

The Gurvin made their first forays into space in
-3800, nearly 70 years after their world war. The
Hivers were reluctant to give the Gurvin access to
jump technology at this point but were happy to
assist them in colonising the other worlds of their
system. The first offworld colony was established on
Ofilaq’s moon in -3760. From that staging ground,
other colonies soon followed and the mining of
asteroids caught in the system’s four gas giant trojan
points began shortly after. The riches discovered
there led to an economic boon which resulted in
more colonies to service the needs of the miners.
By -3650, the Hivers decided the Gurvin had
matured sufficiently to be allowed outside their home
system. They provided them with the secrets of jump
technology with the proviso of limiting their exploration
to the Aghan subsector. At first, every Gurvin
exploratory starship had at least one Hiver assigned
to it to act as an adviser and monitor the actions of the
newly interstellar species. New habitable planets were
discovered within only a few jumps from Ofilaq and
extrasolar colonies were soon founded on Spakaem
(Folgore sector 0304), Ataof (Folgore 0203) and Otuna
(Folgore 0104). Thousands of Gurvin eager for the
challenge of taming a new world and establishing new
business enterprises set out for the new colonies and
their populations grew rapidly.
Over the next 100 years, Gurvin continued spreading
across the Aghan subsector but were halted by
the spinward border and the limits of their jump
technology to coreward, rimward and trailing.
Repeatedly, the Gurvin requested for the Hivers to
reveal the secret of jump-2 but they were told time and
time again they were not ready. Despite undertaking
research into jump technology, the Gurvin were
unsuccessful in uncovering the secret.

Gurvin History

Rebuilding took the Gurvin decades and, during that
time, populations exploded. The demands made
by growing populations saw the need for more raw
materials. The Gurvin were largely unconcerned
with ecological preservation. Massive open-cut
mines tore metals from the ground just as massive
forests were felled to meet commercial needs. Entire
environments were destroyed to feed the industrial
machine, leading to large-scale extinctions. Pollution
led to Ofilaq’s atmosphere becoming tainted, with
commensurate increases in pulmonary and other
diseases. Medical sciences were turned towards
seeking solutions for the sickness.

The increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere
saw rapid climate change. The Gurvin continued
in their ways and their planet suffered. In -3817,
it became clear to the Gurvin their species risked
extinction if something was not done. Plans were
made and enacted to reduce the amount of pollution
produced. The Hivers introduced atomic power to
the Gurvin and other renewable technologies. In time
and through concerted effort, the Gurvin succeeded
in halting the worst effects of their pollution but the
atmosphere remains tainted to this day.

161

