T

Despite their limited jump capability, the Gurvin
had managed to explore and colonise nine planets
within one parsec of each other and their economy
was booming. At this point, each Gurvin colony was
an individual world under self-rule. Nothing tied the
string of worlds together except for the population’s
origin on Ofilaq. The perceived restriction to further
exploration frustrated the Gurvin’s desire to explore
new avenues to build wealth. To address the issue,
a symposium. Representatives from each of the nine
Gurvin worlds were to meet on Ofilaq to discuss
methods of convincing the Hivers to release the
secrets of jump-2 technology to them.

Gurvin History

The symposium discussed many options but the
representatives could all see the main roadblock to
the Gurvin species being given access to jump-2
technology was a lack of a unified front. Each planetary
government had requested jump-2 independently on
different occasions, as had many large businesses,
and all for nought. A decision was made to unite the
Gurvin worlds into a single government and present
their request to the Hivers as a unified whole. Plans
for the new government were drawn out, discussed
and amended. The representatives agreed to
return to their home worlds and present the project
to their populations and establish a ballot to gain
an understanding of their wishes. The symposium
adjourned and agreed to meet the following year.

162

A year later, the symposium reconvened and
presented the decision of their worlds. All but the
population of one world, Fotracuwu (Folgore 0604),
agreed to form a government, the Gurvin Interstellar
Democratic Republic, which would encompass all
10 Gurvin-populated worlds. Each world would
be free to govern itself within the structure of the
unifying government. The new government would
defend the new polity and its constituent worlds. The
headquarters of the new government would be located
on Ofilaq, which would come into effect in one year.
The new government’s first act would be to request
admission into the Hive Federation as a sovereign
state and request access to jump-2 technology.
Over the next year, preparations were made for the
new government. Buildings and infrastructure for the
new government were constructed on Ofilaq, with
offices on the other nine Gurvin worlds. Policy and
guidance were written to form a starfaring defence
force to protect the new polity. Embassies were built
and staffed in preparation for receiving ambassadors
and diplomats, including the Hive Federation.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In -3548, the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic
was founded and as promised, made an official
request to join the Hive Federation and be provided
with the technology for the jump-2 drive. The Hive
Federation had been waiting for the unification
of separate Gurvin worlds into a single polity and
declared them an ‘adult’ species no longer requiring
close Hiver guidance. The Republic was quickly
admitted into the Hive Federation and given access
to the jump-2 drive. The Hive Federation ceded most
of the Eloqim subsector for the Gurvin to explore and
colonise but drew boundaries describing the extent
to which the Republic could expand. The Gurvin
gratefully accepted the boundaries imparted by the
Hive Federation and embarked on a new era of almost
equal partnership with their benefactors.

MODERN HISTORY

Today, the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic
has spread to encompass most of the Aghan and
Eloqim subsectors and contains 46 worlds. They have
spread throughout the Hive Federation and beyond,
becoming valued partners of their Hiver benefactors.
Gurvin have found their niche as the Hive Federation’s
premier traders and business owners, exploring new
markets and taking advantage of established ones.
Their reputation has extended beyond the borders of
the Hive Federation, where they are known as shrewd
and clever entrepreneurs.

R

