HE GURVIN INTERSTELLAR

T DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
The Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic was formed
in -3548, when nine self-governing Gurvin worlds united
to become members of an interstellar polity. The rules of
the new polity were recorded in the Republic Contract,
which defined how the government was to operate and
the issues on which it could legislate.

The representative committee is the first level of the
federal government. New legislation and amendments
to current legislation are raised, debated and voted
upon here. Those which pass a majority vote of 51%
are promoted to be heard by the second level of
government – the board.

Under the articles of the Republic Contract, powers
are divided between the central government and the
individual member worlds. The Republic Contract limits
the functions of the government to maintain order and
security while avoiding interference with the initiative
of individuals in the pursuit of their desired goals. The
contract ensures the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic
Republic operates in an environment of a free market
and does not interfere in the economic affairs of
individuals, societies and worlds. The contract forbids
any oversight or legislation regarding minimum wages,
duties, trade restrictions and corporate taxes.

The board represents the 46 member worlds of the
Republic. All planets, regardless of population, have
two directors in the assembly, selected as they choose.
Directors serve terms lasting 10 years. New legislation
and amendments to current legislation are debated
and voted upon by the board members once the
representatives committee have passed them. Those
who achieve a majority vote of 75% are presented to
the administration for confirmation and ratification. This
is mostly a formality but occasionally a chief executive
has refused to ratify a new or amended law.

THE REPUBLIC GOVERNMENT
The government of the Republic is formally known as
the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic Assembly.
It comprises a chief executive, administration, the
director’s board and the representatives committee.
The assembly is responsible for debating and voting on
new legislation to be introduced and the amendment
of established legislation. The assembly comprises
the chief executive, the board and the representatives
committee. In addition to making laws, the assembly
holds directors and the government accountable
for their actions. Directors must be members of the
assembly and regularly answer questions about their
portfolios asked by other members.
The Republic is divided into several single-member
zones, each comprising approximately one million
voters. This was devised to ensure every citizen of
the Republic is equally represented in the government
regardless of the population of their world. A member of
the representatives committee represents each zone.
Each world has a number of zones proportional to its
population. Worlds which do not have a population
approaching a million are assigned to a zone on
another planet. Elections for the representative
committee are usually held every five years.

Finally, the administration is a section of the board and
consists of the chief executive and the most senior
directors drawn from the board. The chief executive is
the head of the administration and runs its meetings.
Each director in the administration is responsible for a
major portfolio within the Republic government, such
as defence, finance, internal security, foreign affairs
and so on. The number of administration members
is variable based on how the chief executive divides
the portfolios. The administration votes on proposed
and amended legislation to pass into law. This is
usually a formality but there have been times when the
administration has refused to pass legislation. The chief
executive does not vote in the administration except
to break ties. The administration can also propose and
amend new legislation but it must be submitted to the
representative committee for consideration.
Once the administration passes legislation, it is signed
by the chief executive and passed into law. The chief
executive has the ability to veto any legislation brought
to them but this has rarely occurred.
The Republic government has no political parties,
so to speak, and the members of the representative
committee and the board are considered independent.
Naturally, individuals gravitate to others with similar
objectives and desires, creating a pseudo-party
structure but such parties’ nature is fluid and mercurial.

163

