Funding for the government is through taxes. In
accordance with the Republic Contract, individuals and
businesses cannot be taxed based on their income, as it
is seen as a deterrent to financial success. Instead, the
government’s finances are derived from taxing member
worlds based on their population. The tax ensures it does
not unduly burden less populated worlds, while heavily
populated worlds bear the brunt of the government’s
finances. How member worlds collect taxes from their
citizens is a matter for their governments. Taxes are paid
into a public fund used to cover spending and pay those
directly employed by the government.
The Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic’s primary
concern and responsibility is the security of its member
worlds. The Republic has no military forces. Instead,
the Hive Federation protects the Republic with its own
military forces. Individual worlds are permitted to raise
their own planetary defences and police forces. Both of
these agencies’ authorities are restricted to their worlds
of origin. The Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic
Patrol protects the overall security of the Republic.

GURVIN INTERSTELLAR
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC PATROL
The patrol is not a military force but more akin to a
police and intelligence agency. The patrol is divided
into a two-part structure. One is the operation
command, the agency command, and the other is

the support command, the patrol strategic command.
The patrol’s assets are administered by three
forces, which report to the executive commander
of the Gurvin Republic Patrol. These forces are the
interstellar force, the specialist response force and
the external intelligence force.
The interstellar force patrols the Republic’s borders and
internal trade lanes, enforcing the Republic’s interstellar
law. Its primary responsibility is to prevent contraband
movement and suppress pirate activity. The spacecraft
of the patrol force are less than 1,000 tons, with the
majority being less than 600 tons.
The specialist response force is an elite force
responsible for operations which require expert and
unconventional policing methods. The roles carried out
by the specialist response force include undercover
operations, counter-terrorism, internal intelligence,
protection of VIPs and high-risk arrests and searches.
The specialist response force has a small fleet of
spacecraft, none greater than 800 tons.
The external intelligence force is responsible for
intelligence operations outside the borders of
the Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic. It
collects and analyses information in support of law
enforcement, Republic security and foreign policy
through several means, including espionage and
communication interception.

Gurvin Interstellar Democratic Republic
165

