GURVIN TRAVELLERS
Gurvin Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers, as detailed in the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

GURVIN

Female Gurvin Travellers have the following modifiers
to their characteristics: INT+1, EDU+1.

Heightened Senses: Gurvin have a better sense
of smell than humans. All Gurvin receive DM+1 to
any Recon and Survival checks they have to make
based on scent. Gurvin eyes are accustomed to
brighter light than humans but their eyesight is worse
in darkness and they suffer DM-1 to any check
requiring sight in dark conditions.

Male Gurvin Travellers have the following modifiers to
the characteristics: STR -1, DEX+1. They also only roll
1D+1 for their INT and EDU characteristics.

Extra Limbs: Gurvin have a pair of intermediary
limbs which can be used equally well as additional
arms or legs. When used as legs, Gurvin movement
increases to eight metres.

GURVIN TRAITS

TITLES

Gurvin Travellers all possess the following traits:
Arm-Antlers: Male Gurvin possess seasonal sharp
antler-like growths on their arms and intermediary limbs,
which make nasty, close combat weapons. The antlers
use the Melee (natural) skill and do 1D+2 damage.
Males who regularly mingle outside Gurvin society trim
their arm-antlers so they cannot be used as weapons.

Gurvin do not have a system of hereditary nobility
or anything remotely resembling it. They do not use
noble titles within their own society, nor within the
greater Hive Federation. If a Gurvin is ever awarded a
title from a species or world which uses them, they will
adopt the title in situations which warrant it but the title
itself will mean nothing to them.

STARTING AGE

Gurvin Travellers being their careers at 16 years of age.

BACKGROUND SKILLS

Female Gurvin gain background skills at level 0 like
other sophonts, receiving a number of skills equal to
their EDU DM+1. These skills may be chosen from
those listed in the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 8. In
addition, all female Gurvin gain the Broker skill.
Male Gurvin gain background skills at level 0 like other
sophonts, receiving a number of skills equal to their
EDU DM+3. These skills may be chosen from those
listed in the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 8.

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

Gurvin Travellers may use the Pre-Career Education
options in the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 14,
choosing university or military academy. Female Gurvin
rarely attend Military Academy.

167

