T

THE DRAFT
Male Gurvin may submit themselves to the draft like
any other Traveller.

CAREERS
Gurvin Travellers use the career generation system
as detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook with the
following exceptions.
Female Gurvin focus on business endeavours. They
tend to favour the following careers: Agent (corporate),
Citizen (corporate) and Merchant. Any female Gurvin
attempting to qualify for these careers gains DM+2 to
the qualification roll and DM +1 to advancement rolls.
They rarely attempt to join Agent (law enforcement
or intelligence), Army, Marine or Navy careers.
They suffer DM-2 to qualification and DM-1 to
advancement rolls in these careers, although they
gain DM+1 for commission rolls.
Male Gurvin tend to favour the Agent (law
enforcement), Army, Entertainer (performer),
Marine and Navy careers. They gain DM+2 to their
qualification rolls but suffer DM-2 to Commission rolls.
Male Gurvin are more likely to be found in planetary
militias than the Hive Federation navy.
Gurvin rarely choose the Rogue career. If they do, they
suffer DM-4 to qualification and advancement rolls.

Gurvin Travellers

AGEING

168

Gurvin ageing rolls commence at the age of 32 (at the
end of their fourth term). Female Gurvin gain DM+1 to
ageing rolls. Male Gurvin suffer DM-1 to ageing rolls.

MUSTERING OUT
Gurvin Travellers use the mustering out system as
detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

ROLEPLAYING GURVIN
Roleplaying Gurvin alters depending on the gender of
the Traveller. Female Gurvin are strongly motivated to
gain wealth to an obsessive level. Every action they
take, every decision they make, will be focused through
a lens of increasing her wealth.
Despite this obsession, Gurvin females will rarely,
if ever, stoop to illegal methods to gain their wealth.
They may be shrewd and cunning businesswomen
but they will rarely ever resort to criminal activity to
reach their goals. Their actions may be sneaky and
underhanded but they will be completely legal and
withstand the scrutiny of a court of law.
Female Gurvin are very concerned with exhibitions of
wealth. They need others to know they are wealthy,
proving it with elaborate displays throughout their
homes and offices. They will wear copious amounts
of jewellery and expensive garments, and wealthy
females will often have several husbands whom she
will also festoon with jewellery and fine garments. She
will parade her husbands about and have them attend
her as escorts and entertainers.
Gurvin females will not display their wealth through
charity. Instead, they use extravagant displays to show
their wealth. Business meetings will be accompanied
by fine wine and rare delicacies. Contract signings will
be accompanied by a party with local businesspeople
invited to witness the signing. A successful business
coup will be celebrated with a lavish banquet.
Male Gurvin are not motivated by money. Instead,
they are motivated by attracting the attention of female
Gurvin. Males used to aggressively contend for female
attention through physical combat. Hiver squeamishness
has channelled such aggression into the use of dance,
acrobatics and display to vie for female Gurvin attention.
Even when married, males do not stop trying to impress
females but their attentions will be focused primarily on
their wives as opposed to others.

R

