THE TEZCAT
Tezcat – scientifically termed xenofelis aumrharis
sapiens – are relative newcomers to the galactic stage.
Residing in the sparsely populated Great Rift, they are
predatory nihilists shaped by religious fanaticism. Forced
into accepting the existence of aliens, they struggle
to come to terms with their new outlook. Viewing the
universe as filled with monsters, they launched an
unsuccessful interstellar jihad to eradicate them.

PHYSIOLOGY
Tezcat are a humanoid species. Proto-Tezcat evolved
from social forest-dwelling predators who used their
fast-changing colour skin, sharp claws and venomous
bite to aid in hunting. While Tezcat are wickedly
armed compared to Humaniti, they are significantly
underequipped compared to other species on their
planet. This evolutionary discrepancy led to the
development of greater intelligence in proto-Tezcat.
Further adaptions include a bipedal stance to get
a better view of the environment freeing up their
forelimbs to carry objects such as rocks and sticks
to use as tools and weapons. Weapon use led to
the evolution of greater intelligence and significantly
increased their chances of survival.
Tezcat are humanoid in form with a head, two arms,
two legs and a long and flexible tail. They average 170
centimetres in height and weigh about 65 kilograms.
They have an ectomorphic body type, exhibiting narrow
shoulders and hips compared to their size. There
is minimal sexual dimorphism between the sexes.
Females have six small breasts in two columns, starting
somewhat lower and further apart on the ribcage than
human females and continuing down to the belly. The
breasts remain small unless a female is lactating.
Tezcat have smooth hairless skin, which has a texture
like suede and is naturally a silvery-grey colour with an
iridescent sheen. The skin can rapidly change colour,
acting as camouflage to blend into their surroundings
instinctively. This ability is possible due to thousands of
chromatophore-analogue cells beneath the skin. Each
chromatophore cell is filled with either red, orange,
brown, yellow or black pigments, and by contracting
or extending the sacs, they can rapidly change the
brightness and intensity of these colours.

Although they do not possess any hair or fur, Tezcat
grow a shock of dark quills from the tops of their
heads. The quills reach lengths of approximately five
centimetres in length but Tezcat often cut and style the
quills to suit their tastes or requirements. Quills grow
around one centimetre per week if untended.
Tezcat are endothermic – able to maintain their body
temperature through metabolic processing. Their fast
metabolism prevents them from gaining weight quickly,
requiring them to consume twice as many calories as a
Solomani or Vilani of similar stature.
Tezcat possess closed respiratory and cardiovascular
systems. They inspire oxygen and expire carbon
dioxide. Their blood uses coboglobin in corpuscles to
transport oxygen through the body, making the blood
colourless with a faint pink tinge when oxygenated but
taking on a dark yellow colour in the veins. Coboglobin
has a much shorter efficacy period than haemoglobin –
hours as opposed to days – causing a dramatic colour
change from amber to deep pink when it loses its ability
to carry oxygen. Due to Tezcat accelerated metabolism,
they can manufacture coboglobin in adequate amounts
so as not to cause any issues.
Tezcat have an internal skeleton composed of
calcium carbonate in a chitin and protein matrix.
The skeleton provides internal structural support
for the body and performs several vital metabolic
processes. The long bones of the limbs contain a
marrow analogue with the two primary functions of
manufacturing blood corpuscles and antibodies. All
bones also function as a storage system for calcium
released for muscular contraction.
An incredibly flexible spine is situated dorsally. The
spine comprises 39 vertebrae – nine cervical, 16
thoracic, nine lumber and five sacral. Each vertebra
possesses a ventral channel through which the spinal
cord extends, providing excellent protection to the
nerve tissue. From the spine extends the shoulder and
leg girdles, the ribcage and the tail.

179

