T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The tail is an extension of the spine composed of 36
vertebrae, making it long and highly flexible but not
prehensile. The tail maintains balance, especially
when running or traversing unstable ground and
imparts general emotional states such as anger,
annoyance, curiosity and submission.
The ribcage consists of 16 paired ribs. The Tezcat
do not possess a sternum. The ribs are not directly
connected to the spine; connective cartilage supports
the ribs from the spine along the dorsal side and
to each other on the ventral side. Tezcat possess
clavicle analogues but unlike many humanoids, they
are free floating for flexibility. Protected within the
ribcage are several vital organs.
The heart lies centrally within the ribcage, close to
the spinal cord. The heart consists of eight chambers
which are arranged in a row. Each chamber is powered
by separate sets of muscles providing a built-in
redundancy in case one or several fail. Each chamber
beats in succession with 130 beats per minute when
the Tezcat is at rest and up to 260 beats per minute
under exertion. Blood is pumped out through the top of
the heart through two large arteries to the lungs, where
oxygen is taken up and carbon dioxide is released,
then to the rest of the body via an arterial system to
deliver oxygen to the cells. A venal system returns
deoxygenated blood to the bottom of the heart.

The Tezcat

Surrounding the heart, except dorsally, are the four
lungs. Each lung is a spongy organ comprising four
separate lobes and is densely packed with alveoli.
Each lung is surrounded by an individual muscle which
contracts and expands to produce inhalation. Air is
inhaled into the lungs through the bronchi via the trachea
and nose. Each lunch can operate independently if
necessary. When at rest, Tezcat commonly only utilise
two lungs and recruit the other two under exertion.

180

Also located in the ribcage, below the lungs, are
three organs which remove toxins from the blood, act
as a blood reservoir and assist the body in fighting
infection. The functions of these organs are like the
kidneys and spleen found in Humaniti.
The shoulder girdle extends outward from the top of the
ribcage from which the upper limbs are connected. The
shoulder girdle is flexible enough to bring the shoulders
into physical contact in front of the body.

R

