The forelimbs consist of a major and minor upper arm
bone and a major and minor lower arm bone each.
The major upper arm bone contains a ball which fits
into a matching socket in the shoulder girdle. The
minor bones lie beside the major ones and assist in the
rotation of the limb. The shoulder joint is highly flexible
and protected by a muscle and connective tissue
capsule to provide support and movement.
The lower limbs comprise similar bones as those found
in the upper limbs and are connected to the spine
via a structure remarkably like the shoulder girdle
and similarly connected to the lower limbs. The lower
limbs are digitigrade, with Tezcat walking on their toes.
The lower limbs are more heavily muscled than the
upper limbs, a holdover from when Proto-Tezcat were
quadrupeds and the hindlimbs provided most of the
motive force for explosive movement.
Tezcat hands and feet are similar in structure. The
palm and body of the foot are elongated and possess
vestigial pads. Four-toed front paws have evolved
into three nimble fingers and toes ending in sharp
claws. The thumb, also ending in a sharp claw, is
located far back on the hand, near the complex wrist
joint. Tezcat hands are remarkably dexterous. They
can remove the skin of a grape with a single claw
without damaging the flesh below.
The fourth toe on the foot is vestigial and in most
Tezcat is only a small, dewclaw-like extremity located
near but not connected to the ankle joint. The
positioning of the dewclaw exposes it to accidents and
many parents have their children’s dewclaws surgically
removed shortly after birth.
The skull is connected to the body via a longish neck
and is attached to the spine via a complex joint, giving
excellent freedom of movement. The skull is long
with small mandibles. The ocular sockets are large
and deep set to protect the eyes. Aural openings are
located high up on either side of the skull.

In the upper and lower jaws, Tezcat have venom
glands which produce a neurotoxin which can kill a
rabbit-sized animal in moments but will only make
a healthy adult human ill. The glands connect to the
teeth, and the venom is delivered through a bite.
Tezcat teeth are composed of skeletal tissue covered
in hard mineralised enamel. The teeth are long and
pointed, designed to penetrate flesh deeply and tear
off large chunks which are not chewed but swallowed
whole. The teeth also possess a hollow groove or
channel on the dorsal surface through which venom
is pumped. Tezcat continually grow teeth throughout
their lives, replacing those lost, broken or worn out.
The tongue is only capable of minimal movement
and does not contribute meaningfully to the formation
of words. A short nub-like tongue projects from the
mouth’s roof, with tastebuds that can detect a broad
range of flavours, although their sense of taste is no
more sensitive than humans.
Tezcat have large eyes with slitted pupils. Muscles
around the pupils can contract and dilate the pupils
significantly, controlling the amount of light which can
enter the eye. This allows the pupils to open very large
to let in the maximum light possible at night or very
small in bright light. Tezcat require some light to see, no
matter how dim. Their sense of sight is slightly inferior
to that of a human in daylight but more acute at night.
Tezcat can see colour but their range limits them to
yellow-blue dichromatic vision. They are very good at
distinguishing between blues, yellow, black and white
variations but cannot see red or green very well. This
deficiency does not affect their ability to mimic those
colours with their chameleon ability.
The ears are long and narrow, extending from the
side and the top of the head. They are composed of
flexible chitin and are covered in the skin. The ears are
highly flexible and capable of independent movement.
While the ears are large, the Tezcat sense of hearing is
only slightly superior to human hearing, able to detect
sounds in the same decibel range.

The Tezcat

The brain is located under a thick layer of bone in the
skull behind and above the eyes. The brain consists
of a single lobe which is heavily folded. The brain’s
ocular portion is highly developed and conditioned
to respond to movement. The brain comprises four
parts, three corresponding to and having the same
functions as the forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain
found in Humaniti, with the addition of the sub brain

located below the forebrain. The sub brain, an
extension of the hindbrain, is primarily responsible
for controlling Tezcat camouflage ability. Damage
to this part of the brain can reduce or remove their
ability to change the colour of their skin.

181

