T

The nose is small and surprisingly cat-like in
appearance. It has two nostrils which lead to a large
nasal cavity and then to the mouth and the trachea.
The nostrils and nasal cavity possess millions of cells
capable of detecting scent, giving them a sense of
smell slightly superior to the human sense.
Tezcat possess a larynx-like organ located low on the
trachea and can generate a narrow range of low throaty
growls to high-pitched screeches. Communication
is composed of a variety of hisses and growls
accompanied by changes in skin colour. Tezcat can
produce both whispers and loud booming roars.
The throat splits into the trachea and oesophagus at
the back of the mouth, with the oesophagus leading
to the stomach, which contains strong digestive
fluids where digestion begins. The stomach leads to
a short intestinal tract which combines the functions
of the large and small intestines and the liver. Food
passes quickly through the digestive system where
nutrients are absorbed. Indigestible material and
waste are passed into a colon-analogue located in
the base of the tail and then eliminated through a
cloaca. Tezcat do not have a bladder and do not
urinate. Instead, all waste products collected from
the blood are passed to the colon analogue and
illuminated collectively as semi-solid waste.

The Tezcat

Tezcat have two genders which correspond to male and
female. The genitalia of both sexes are internal. Both
males and females possess pseudo-phallus organs
extending from the cloaca when aroused. Mating
is performed externally by entwining the pseudophalluses together while the male excretes gametes
which are absorbed by the female pseudo-phallus
through the skin. The male’s gametes travel up into the
female’s reproductive system to fertilise her gametes.
Female Tezcat come into oestrus approximately
every 160 days, releasing between one and ten
gametes into their reproductive systems. The
gametes remain fertile for about seven days, during
which period if mating occurs there is a high chance
of conception. It is not unusual for female Tezcat to
have multiple intimate partners, so the young could
have different fathers if pregnancy occurs.
If fertilised by male gametes, the zygotes lodge
in a cylinder-shaped uterus. A placenta for each
embryo connects to the uterus wall to supply oxygen
but not nutrition. Instead, each embryo has a yolk

182

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

sack from which it draws nutrients during gestation
and up to a week after birth. Pregnancy lasts only
three Imperial months. Not all fertilised gametes
successfully develop but births typically comprise
between one and six young. Younger females tend
to have smaller litters, with the number in each litter
increasing as she grows older. The mother’s body
reabsorbs unsuccessful gametes.

LIFESPAN
Tezcat young are born with their eyes and ears
closed. They are completely helpless and are reliant
on their parents. The young are nursed by their
mother with a milk analogue produced in her breasts
and excreted directly through the skin, where they lick
it off. Newborns cannot walk but wriggle around on
their stomachs within minutes of birth. By two months
of age, their eyes open but they cannot see clearly for
another month. By three months, their ear canals are
fully open and they have clear hearing.
By four months of age, young can eliminate bodily
waste independently. Before this they must rely on
their parents to stimulate them to excrete waste. Their
teeth will also begin erupting through their gums. By
six months, they can crawl independently, explore their
surroundings and interact with their siblings. They can
also start consuming solids partially digested by their
mother and regurgitated for them.
At eight months, the young begin walking upright and
can eat independently without assistance. They start
speaking their first words and can string together
simple sentences within the year.
At four years of age, Tezcat young are old enough to
begin education. Initial instruction is undertaken in the
home, where the young are taught the fundamentals
of reading, writing and arithmetic by their parents.
Home education continues for two years; when they
are six, they begin formal schooling.
Formal academic education generally continues
until the young are 17 years old, although there
are provisions for young to leave their academic
education for vocational education at the age of 15.
On graduation at 17, young are considered adults and
can enter the workforce or continue with advanced
education. Young can leave the family home at this
age but it is not unusual for young to remain with their
parents for several more years.

R

