Tezcat are in the prime of their lives from 20 to 45. After
the age of 45, signs of ageing increase and include
conditions such as arthritis, heart disease, bone density
loss and the reduced production of sex hormones.
Between the ages of 45 and 55, male and female
Tezcat become infertile although there are medical
techniques to induce pregnancy artificially.
By the age of 70, Tezcat are considered geriatrics.
Age-related diseases are increasingly common and
most Tezcat do not live beyond 80. As with many
other species, anagathics can significantly lengthen
Tezcat lifespans.

DIET
Tezcat evolved from obligate carnivores with a diet
of at least 70% meat and could not digest vegetable
matter properly. Modern Tezcat digestion has improved
somewhat and they can enjoy a wider variety of diets
than their ancestors. However, they prefer a primarily
protein-heavy intake, generally preferring that obtained
from small game. Tezcat enjoy their meat and offal
fresh and slightly cooked, but not raw. Organ tissue is
appreciated for its high vitamin and mineral density.
Modern Tezcat have also introduced a small amount
of vegetable matter into their diet. Their digestive
tract is still heavily geared towards carnivory, so
care must be taken to ensure that plant matter is
adequately prepared. Freshly picked vegetables
are steamed, boiled or roasted long enough for any
tough plant fibres to break down and served and
eaten alongside animal protein.
Tezcat dislike seasoning their food, nor do they
enjoy sauces, gravies or condiments. Their food
preparation is simple and uncomplicated, geared
towards a bland palate.

Tezcat are descended from social predators who laid
in wait and attacked prey from ambush, using their
natural camouflage ability to keep hidden from view
until the last moment. The preferred tactic used by
Proto-Tezcat was to surround a watering hole and
wait for prey to come to drink, then attack as a group
using multiple bites and poison to bring down prey too
large for an individual to handle. Pack members were
affectionate with each other, using grooming, touch,
and sex to maintain group bonds and ease tension.
These behaviours have remained with Tezcat and
strongly influence their society.

FAMILY

The basic social unit among Tezcat is the Iraahr,
a group marriage between four to eight females
and males who live, mate together and raise any
resulting offspring. All members of an Iraahr are
equal partners, ideally coming together and making
decisions which affect the family as a group. It is not
unusual for some Tezcat with strong personalities to
dominate their Iraahr.
Iraahr are both emotional and economic partnerships,
recognised by Tezcat law. When an Iraahr is formed,
those involved sign contracts stipulating how property
and finances are divided and how children will be
supported if a member leaves the group or the whole
Iraahr breaks up. Apart from the legal requirements,
forming an Iraahr or joining an already established
one requires little more than the agreement of all
parties. While there are no formal festivities, the
formation of a new Iraahr, or the admission of a new
member to an already established one, is often an
excuse for several days of licentious celebration.
Adult members of an Iraahr show almost complete
intimacy with each other for the duration of their
relationship. They live, work and play together as
much as possible, sharing finances, food, residences
and offspring. There are no restrictions regarding
exclusivity within the Iraahr and individuals are free to
be casually intimate with others outside of it.
While there are no social mores against intimate
relations before entering an Iraahr, most female
Tezcat prefer to have the financial and emotional
security of a formal Iraahr before producing offspring.

The Tezcat

Tezcat enjoy a wide range of liquids. Standard
drinks include teas made from steeping plants or
herbs in hot water, mild stimulant made from a dried
and crushed insect analogue, water and artificially
flavoured and carbonated drinks like soda. Tezcat
have also perfected fermenting fresh blood, creating
a thick dark gold alcoholic beverage consumed
during certain religious rites.

SOCIETY

183

