T

Children are expected to remain with their parents until
they reach the age of majority, which is 17, at which
point they are legally able to leave the Iraahr home. Most
young Tezcat choose to join a military service, leaving to
be housed by their service. Tezcat who decide to pursue
further education either remain at home or join a group
of other students in a shared housing arrangement.
Tezcat particularly respect the elderly. Most of the
aged, if unable to live independently, reside with one
of their adult children, even if they require extensive
care. It is not unusual for an adult child to resign from
employment to take full-time care of a parent.

EGALITARIAN
The belief in equality extends from the Iraahr into the
broader Tezcat society. They believe the maintenance
of equality across the strata of society fosters good
relations and community – it is the glue which holds
civilisation together. Tezcat see each other as equals
who are afforded the same rights and obligations as
everyone else, regardless of who they are or their
societal position. They believe all Tezcat have the right
to life, justice, health, education, an adequate standard
of living, freedom to be heard and freedom from torture.
These fundamental rights are enshrined in Tezcat law.

The Tezcat

Tezcat espouse that every individual’s wishes and
desires are of equal weight and bearing as everyone
else’s. This belief has led to larger social structures
such as business groups, organisations, religion
and government agencies being democratic rather
than hierarchical. Decisions are made based on the
majority consensus and not on the opinions of an
elite individual or group. This does not mean Tezcat
society does not have leaders. Quite the contrary,
leaders are seen as guides and mentors who share
their wisdom with others to inform their choices but
are seen as no better than anyone else.

184

The major exception to this democratic philosophy
and lack of hierarchical structure is the military. Even
in the light of urgency, most military leaders will seek
the opinions of peers or those next in command, if
possible, before deciding. However, decisions may
need to be made quickly or on the fly, where there
is no luxury of time to consult with the organisation’s
body to reach a consensus. Regardless of this need,
there is no artificial distance between the rank and file
of officers and ordinary soldiers within the military –
they are all seen as equal.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

While Tezcat value their worth and equality, they do
not feel the same about other lifeforms. Tezcat only
extend their egalitarianism towards themselves and
only open it to others if they are somehow viewed as
members of the Tezcat species.

PHYSICAL AFFECTION
Tezcat have a minimal concept of personal space.
They not only enjoy but crave physical contact
and affection with others of their species. Physical
affection and emotional connections among
themselves are essential for establishing bonds and
releasing tensions. Proto-Tezcat used grooming and
personal contact to maintain cohesiveness in their
packs. Modern Tezcat are no different.
Acts of physical affection release a hormone in the
Tezcat brain like a combination of oxytocin and
dopamine found in Humaniti. The hormone not
only helps build bonds, promote empathy and aid
in sexual arousal but it also activates the reward
centres in the brain, making them feel happy, safe
and secure. When the reward centres of the Tezcat
brain are stimulated, they release another hormone
like serotonin found in Humaniti, which is vital in
staving off anxiety and depression and promotes
feelings of contentment and calm.
Physical affection among Tezcat can take many forms.
Most common is just being in physical contact with
each other. When greeting each other, regardless of
familiarity, Tezcat will often rub against each other and
touch tongues while their tails entwine. Among friends
and family, Tezcat will lounge against each other,
gently caress each other’s skin, stroke each other’s
quills and share massages.
Lack of physical affection has severe ramifications for
Tezcat mental health and wellbeing. When deprived
of the ability to express and receive physical affection,
they rapidly show signs of depression. They become
sad and listless, lose interest in things they enjoy,
avoid social interactions, feel fatigued but have
difficulty sleeping and show signs of anxiety and
irritability. The longer Tezcat are denied physical
affection, the worse these symptoms become. In time,
the lack of physical affection will progress to losing
their appetite and interest in eating, leading to weight
loss, dulling of the skin’s iridescent sheen, quill loss,
organ damage and ultimately, death.

R

