There are no known substitutes for Tezcat’ need for
physical affection. Drugs that artificially stimulate or
introduce the hormones released by physical affection
only work briefly as their body quickly adapts to
them. Physical affection with other species does not
cause the same release of hormones as with their
own species. Tezcat view the deliberate withholding
of physical affection as cruel and identical to torture.
Tezcat society does not condone the intentional
isolation of others. No jobs require isolation for
long periods and more than one individual always
fills those which do. If they know they will be alone
for an extended period, Tezcat will seek the drugs
required to keep at bay the mental harm being alone
will exact and seek to minimise the time they are
away from their species. Even Tezcat prisons do not
isolate inmates, allowing them physical contact and
interaction with each other and visitors.

CASUAL INTIMACY
Tezcat are very open regarding casual intimacy.
Tezcat frequently mate with each other, usually with
partners, friends, and respected workmates. Mating
with strangers or anonymously is not frowned upon
but is viewed as less ‘serious’ than between those
who respect and love each other.
Tezcat have no taboos regarding sexual orientation
and most are sexually fluid in their attraction towards
others. Casual intimacy is not viewed as promiscuity
by Tezcat. They view sex as natural and not
bound by the limitations of love or legal contracts.
Nor are there any beliefs about owning partners,
expectations of exclusivity or requiring permission to
seek intimacy with others.

PLAYFULNESS
Tezcat are a naturally playful species. To those
unfamiliar with them, Tezcat can switch from almost any
mood into playful frivolity without a moment’s notice.
A serious meeting can spontaneously dissolve into a
game of tag around the boardroom without warning.

The instinct to resort to playing as a pressure release
remained with the Tezcat even as they moved from
sentience to sophoncy. As in all things, the strength of
the playful instinct varies from individual-to-individual.
Tezcat are taught how to use play as a circuit breaker
from a young age. A mother seeing her nonverbal
baby becoming frustrated at not being understood
may begin a game of peek-a-boo. Seeing his children
start to argue, a father may initiate a game of pounce
and tickle. A teacher, seeing the stress students feel
during an important exam or test may start a game of
freeze-dance. Once the game is over and the tension
has been released, Tezcat return to the activity as if
nothing untoward had occurred.

The Tezcat

Naturally, there are risks involved in living in such
an open society. Care is taken to ensure unwanted
pregnancies and births are avoided. Safe practices
ensure infections and diseases are neither contracted
nor proliferated. Contracting such an infection is not
seen as shameful or a reason for embarrassment,
as accidents happen. However, not seeking a cure
is seen as unethical due to the potential risk it poses
to others. Intentionally infecting others is considered
reprehensible and punishable by law.

These playful interludes are not, as they may appear,
a lack of focus or an inability to take things seriously.
Instead, they are essential tools for releasing tension
and relieving stress. Having evolved from a hunting
species, Tezcat can quickly move to violence. Stress,
anxiety and conflict can easily lead to a loss of
control and physical combat. Before they achieved
sophoncy, Proto-Tezcat instinctually resorted to
playful games to relieve pent-up frustration and
curtail aggression. Not only did playfulness release
intra-pack tensions but acted to further bond the
individuals of the pack into a cohesive group.

185

