T

Naturally, Tezcat will not erupt into play when it is
foolish to do so, such as the crew on the bridge of a
starship in the middle of combat. In actual dangerous
or combat situations, or when leading up to battle,
they rein in their exuberance and become the silent
killers evolution has designed them to be. Once the
immediate threat is over, the participants will likely
break into enthusiastic and exerting shenanigans.

XENOPHOBIA
Tezcat are instinctually xenophobic – viewing other
sophonts with intolerance, distrust, caution or disgust
– with the intensity of those feelings based on how
different the other species is. The more diverse,
the more extreme the reaction is. Some particularly
fanatical Tezcat will not tolerate any other sophont
species and exhibit severe reactions towards them
no matter how similar they may be.
Generally, endothermic humanoids such as Humaniti,
Aslan and Vargr are considered with suspicion
and contempt. Tezcat will regard such sophonts
as inferior to them. They will expect the sophont
to conform to Tezcat behaviour and values and
will react with annoyance, anger or fear if they do
not. Tezcat can come to respect or even befriend a
particular sophont of this type but will consider the
rest of the population dangerous and worthy only of
contempt. Even if they consider such a sophont a
friend, they can still patronise them and any feelings
of betrayal may provoke an attack.

The Tezcat

Sophonts such as Droyne, Sydite, Bwap or Nexxies,
humanoids with extra limbs, wings, gills, or scales,
are considered racial enemies. To Tezcat, they are
dangerous animals who have somehow learned to
use technology and seek to enslave them. Sophonts
who embrace psionics, such as the Zhodani, are
treated similarly and seen as co-conspirators of the
Varaku, their extinct racial enemies.

186

Tezcat academics have learned of the long racial
association Zhodani have had with Droyne and
Chirpers, and as such, Tezcat distrust them. In this
manner, Tezcat are similar in their intolerant view of
psionics as the Third Imperium and sympathise with
them. Psionic sophonts such as these might be able to
visit a Tezcat world on a crucial diplomatic mission but
would likely be attacked if they were on the streets.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

While Tezcat have had little contact with
nonhumanoid aliens such as Llellewyoly, K’Kree or
Hivers, they would view them as nothing more than
monstrous animals. No Tezcat would tolerate such
abominations in their presence and are likely to
attack them, flee or even become physically ill.
The extreme view Tezcat have of other sophonts
is based on their loathing for the Varuku, who also
evolved on the Tezcat homeworld. The Varuku
were a species of amphibious psuedoreptiles who
competed directly with the Tezcat and, at one point,
had enslaved almost all of them.
Regardless of their reasons, Tezcat attitude towards
other sophonts is a serious disadvantage. Tezcat
realise humanoid sophonts can be cunning but have an
arrogant assumption of their cultural superiority. More
Tezcat-like sophonts will likely have their intelligence
and capabilities drastically overestimated and those
most different to Tezcat will have their intelligence and
capabilities underestimated. Their fear and hatred
towards the different can lead Tezcat into poorly
planned actions and lead them to stumble into simple
traps or respond to provocation. More humanoid
sophonts could use this weakness to manipulate Tezcat
into actions against stranger-looking species. With
almost no incitement, a Tezcat would readily suspect
a Bwap, Droyne or Sheol of a sinister plot to take over
the galaxy and take it upon themselves to end it. This
attitude could be advantageous to a small Imperial,
Vargr or Aslan colony which needs help fending off a
Zhodani or K’Kree attack, for example – any group of
Tezcat mercenaries would eagerly accept a contract to
put a stop to such alien monstrosities.

BELIEFS

Tezcat are individuals and have many varying beliefs,
but certain generalisations can be made which apply to
the species to a greater or lesser degree.
Tezcat have a deep love of life, making them obsessed
with death. They do not believe in an afterlife and much
of their philosophy centres on the ephemeral nature of
life and how what time is given should be put to good
use. They do not believe in an eternal soul or spirit,
nor do they believe in reincarnation. This belief leads
Tezcat to love life and desire to live it fully, as once they
are dead, there are no second chances.

R

