Likewise, with no afterlife to look forward to, there
is only a limited time in which they can experience
consciousness and once it is gone, it is gone forever.
Their outlook extends to everything in the universe,
seeing nothing as constant, everything changes and
everything eventually ends – essentially, everything
inexorably leads to decay and destruction.
Tezcat have several different methods for the
disposal of their dead but they commonly believe the
consumption of the deceased shows them respect.
Most Tezcat funerals involve devouring parts of their
dead friends and loved ones. Sometimes, Tezcat
soldiers will show their respect for valiant or honourable
humanoid enemies by partaking – if biologically
compatible – in portions of their bodies. Apart from
these exceptions, Tezcat generally do not seek out
other sophonts for food, except for Chirpers and
Droyne, which they see as fair game.
Once a friend’s or loved one’s flesh has been
consumed, the bones are cleaned and taken to a
Shaper temple. There, the bones are ritualistically
placed in the temple’s walls, where they remain visible
to all who enter. The front of the skull is placed in a
niche facing outwards and rests on a pile composed of
short bones. The long bones are arranged in a frame
around the skull. The bones are not identified in any
manner, nor are they the subject of any worship or
veneration. Tezcat believe preserving the bones of their
dead is another expression of respect.
Despite their lack of belief in an afterlife or soul,
Tezcat believe in a creator deity they call the Knkrutak – the Absolute – who created them as its
chosen people. Doctrine dictates the physical form
of Tezcat is holy as it was divinely inspired. Any
deviation from such form is, at the very least, a slight
to the creator and at worst blasphemy. It is unknown
whether this belief results from Tezcat xenophobia or
if it was formulated to reinforce it.

The belief in the Absolute is directed by a religious
organisation led by the Kis-aurash – Shaper
priesthood. The priesthood claims its legitimacy
through direct lineage from the cultural hero Vre’rhar,
who freed the Tezcat from enslavement by the
Varaku. The priesthood, and the doctrine they serve,
are xenophobic, fanatical and conservative. They
reinforce the sacredness of the Tezcat physical form
and the superiority of their beliefs and culture. This
belief has been rationalised through the struggle with
the Varaku and Tezcat victory over them as evidence
of their holy privilege and their sacred duty to destroy
all mockeries of the true form.
As a result, Tezcat relationships with other sophonts
have been characterised by xenophobia and
genocide. An early encounter with Droyne, which
led to war, helped cement these behaviours. Shaper
adherents reserve their most extraordinary hatred
for ‘false gods’ and delight in burning places of
worship to the ground and exterminating their priests.
Fortunately, as this behaviour is generally frowned
upon by interstellar society, Shapers must curb these
desires, although they are vital in sermons, religious
media broadcasts and iconography.

The Tezcat

The Absolute is an abstract entity that does not share
its Tezcat worshippers’ form. The Absolute is a harsh
and unforgiving deity, a personification of entropy
which must be appeased and pacified by Tezcat so life
may continue as usual. In the past, the Absolute was
most often imagined as a yawning and empty void.
In recent centuries Sagittarius A*, the supermassive
black hole located at the centre of the galaxy, has
come to be associated with the Absolute. Other
smaller black holes are sacred and believed to be
gateways or doorways leading to the Absolute.

THE SEEKERS
There is a faction among the Shaper priests
known as the Seekers who wish to send a
combination pilgrimage and scientific expedition
to the nearest black hole – a journey of several
hundred light years and potentially requiring
the cooperation of other species. They are very
interested in the stories they have heard of
the Zhodani core expedition and are incredibly
nervous about the aliens’ intentions. Naturally,
this opinion serves to feed Tezcat paranoia
about the Zhodani Consulate. Additional
information regarding black holes and the
route taken to the galactic core is one of the
few things which may lead Shaper priests to
cooperate with other intelligent species.

187

