T

Although there are more moderate doctrines and rituals,
live sacrifice is the most visible form of Tezcat worship.
The role of sacrificial offering is reserved for Tezcat, as
aliens are unworthy of being made an offering. Most
sacrifices comprise criminals and heretics, although
occasionally a voluntary sacrifice is requested from the
populace for particularly significant rituals.
In ancient times, shrines to the Absolute were usually
natural deep cenotes surrounded by megalithic
structures. Sacrifices were bound and then flung into
the pit. Most modern sacrifices are now ejected from
an airlock – with vacc suits and enough air for a few
days – on a trajectory calculated to take them to the
galactic core and the embrace of the Absolute in a few
billion years. A few Tezcat sacrifices have been saved
from their fate by passing spacecraft before their air
has run out but such events are rare in the extreme.

The Tezcat

Despite their relatively narrow view regarding the
form of holiness, Tezcat believe that sometimes they
can be mistakenly born in the wrong body. Even
the most xenophobic Shaper priest acknowledges
this as occasionally occurring. This has resulted
in a process called Incarnation, where a Tezcat is
freed from such a disgusting state. Tezcat have no

188

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

greater honour they can bestow on another sophont.
The Shaper Church must approve all instances of
Incarnation. Most often, Incarnation is requested by
a Tezcat who witnesses the bravery or honourable
action performed by another sophont. The witnessing
Tezcat’s Iraahr must agree to sponsor the new Tezcat
before Incarnation can be confirmed.
Incarnation involves radical surgery so the sophont’s
body can conform to the Tezcat form. It can only be
performed on species with similar bodies to Tezcat,
such as most of Humaniti and other humanoid species
– Aslan, Vargr and so on. The process involves
approximately three months of invasive cosmetic
surgery, including muscle, skin, cell and bone grafts,
organ transplants, genetic therapy and cybernetic
prosthesis. The surgery is conducted entirely without
anaesthetics. Tezcat believe the pain experienced
during the surgery assists in releasing the true Tezcat
trapped within the mind and body of the subject.
While the external appearance of the subject can be
changed, their biochemistry remains the same, which
can have some impact on things such as diet.
Extensive mental conditioning follows, resulting
in brainwashing the subject into believing they
are Tezcat. This process can take a significant
amount of time and depends on the strength of will

R

