of the subject. Techniques used include hypnotic
suggestion, sleep deprivation, forced isolation and
other methods commonly recognised by other species
as psychological torture. If the subject survives the
surgery and subsequent conditioning, they become,
for all intents and purposes, Tezcat.
Even successful survivors of the Incarnation process
tend to be psychologically damaged by the process.
Some have developed psychological disorders such
as bloodlust against their previous species, paranoia
or dissociative syndrome.
As can be expected, most sophonts decline the offer
to be Incarnated. Those who have been Incarnated
have been suitable ‘heroes’ captured in battle and
took up the offer while not understanding the process
and believing they could keep their loyalty intact and
continue fighting against the Tezcat. Unfortunately,
this belief has been proved inaccurate – once the
process of Incarnation has been completed, the
subject will identify completely as Tezcat or go
insane through the process.
There have been a few documented cases of
mercenaries who have served with Tezcat and accepted
the Incarnation offer. These are the few instances of
voluntary Incarnation and if the subject were fully aware
of the process, their sanity would be questionable.
All Tezcat treat the Incarnated as one of their own and
will go to great lengths to make them feel at home.
The sponsoring Tezcat Iraahr adopts a sophont who
has been successfully Incarnated to facilitate transition
into Tezcat society. As the adult members of an Iraahr
are physically intimate with each other, the Incarnate
is also expected to participate. As the Incarnate’s
genetic structure remains unchanged by the process,
no offspring can naturally result from such contact,
although adoptions are certainly possible.

The Shaper Church is a democratic organisation.
Leaders are nominated from among the priesthood
and the membership confirms their position through
votes. Regular ballots likewise decide policy. Internal
politics within the Shaper Church is passionate and
fierce. Despite their democratic outlook and the
general egalitarian attitude, priests often belong to
different ideological factions.

Shaper priests can be identified by their long robes,
the colour and design predicated by their position
within the church structure and their sect or ideology.
Priests also wear black blank masks, which serve to
deidentify them with the laity and present them as
representatives of the Absolute.
The Shaper Church has eliminated all other religions
on Aum-rhar. Most Tezcat are raised within the faith
and believe in its basic tenants without question. They
see themselves as the chosen servants of entropy
as personalised by the Absolute and view all other
sophont species as ungodly creations. Not all members
of Tezcat society are fanatical Shapers. Some only
follow the forms of worship and some radical factions
– a few within the Shaper Church hierarchy – believe
the faith should be reformed to allow other ‘humanoid’
sophonts into the congregation.

GOVERNMENT

As an egalitarian people, Tezcat have experimented
with various types of government throughout their
history. Modern Tezcat prefer democratic governments,
ones which value the input of citizens and where
the will of the people is reflected in policy, leading
to a preference for participatory democracies.
However, practicality often results in representational
democracies developing.

The Tezcat

Shaper priests can be stereotyped as a collection of
bureaucrats who have used the priesthood as means
to power, scholarly academics, philosophers, a few
exceptional gravitational astronomers and fanatical
zealots in whom faith burns with pure light.

CLEANSING
Shaper doctrine dictates that contact with other
sophonts is inherently unclean and should be
avoided. If such contact must be undertaken,
it must be kept to a minimum and physical
contact, such as touching, must be avoided.
In the case of physical contact with another
sophont does occur, Tezcat are considered
unclean and must undergo a cleansing ritual
before they interact with any other uninvolved
Tezcat. To cleanse themselves, Tezcat must
shower or bathe while reciting a series of
purifying prayers, then must not eat or drink
anything but water for 26 hours – the length
of an Aum-rhar day. Failing to perform such
a ritual before purification is considered
a criminal offence and is punishable by
amputating the right ear.

189

