T

THE SOLAR HEGEMONY

The Lemente Ezva Har’Tez – Solar Hegemony of
the Sacred People – is the interstellar union which
joins together the worlds controlled by Tezcat. It is a
small democratic theocracy heavily influenced by the
Shaper Church. The union is governed from Aumrhar (Reft 1907). It includes five other worlds – the
populous agricultural colony Zamoran (Reft 2108),
which is a conquered Droyne world once known as
Draykoysap and the outlying colonies on Arnorac
(Reft 2509), Gordon (Reft 2609), Undrelyn (Reft
1812) and R’Bak (Reft 1314).
The Solar Hegemony is technologically inclined,
energetic and armed with a burning religious faith and
powerful zeal to bring civilisation to the ‘barbarians’. It
is expansionistic, aggressive and heavily influenced by
the Shaper Church and the military. Its politics attempts
to balance xenophobia, paranoia and Tezcat instinctive
urge to blend in and attack from ambush. Tezcat make
poor neighbours but considering their isolated location
in the Great Rift, they have few to contend with. They
can make valuable allies, however.

The Tezcat

The Solar Hegemony government comprises two
houses. The upper house, Hurarma, includes highranking Shaper priests from the church hierarchy.
It possesses veto power over any laws related
to religious matters and acts as a supreme court

190

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

of appeal. The lower house, Esrarm, comprises
representatives elected from each world in the
hegemony. The number of representatives a
world may have in the lower house is based on its
population, with the more populated worlds having
a more significant number of representatives. Only
priests or military veterans can vote for nominated
individuals destined for the Esrarm.
The military and a bureaucracy support the lower
house, can set taxes, regulate trade and decide
on government policy. There is no president, prime
minister or other executive authority. All decisions are
made by majority vote, with executive responsibility
held by various committees led by senior or popular
members from within them.
Government committees represent areas of interest
and comprise at least one member of the lower house
and several experts within the field the committee
represents. Committees include the Committee for
Business and Trade, the Committee for Interstellar
Affairs, the Committee for Religion and the Committee
for Military. The committees’ purview covers only
the hegemony as a whole. Each planet is permitted
independent rule if it abides by the Hegemony
government’s legislation and policy.

LAW

Tezcat laws are heavily influenced, if not controlled,
by their Shaper religion and include ethical and moral
codes taught by their religious traditions. Their laws are
complex and detailed, covering most if not all aspects
of Tezcat life, including crime, politics, economics,
sexual intercourse, hygiene, diet, prayer, inheritance
and fasting. Adhering to them is not only a matter of
legality but of spirituality as well.
Enshrined in law is what a Tezcat is, stipulating
the shape of their body, the number of limbs and
functionality. Historically, young Tezcat born with
a disability or deformity were not considered
Tezcat and the mother was legally required to
dispatch them. As medical and surgical knowledge
advancements were able to remedy some congenital
disabilities, disabled young were legally permitted
to live until such medical intervention was proven
successful and, if not, dispatched painlessly. Where
medicine cannot help those born with a disability or
defect, the law requires them to be dispatched.

R

