The laws regarding the form of Tezcat bodies do not
apply to those who have suffered an accident or injury
after birth – they were born Tezcat and, despite no
longer adhering to the holy shape stipulated by the
Absolute, are still Tezcat. Therefore, there is no shame in
having prosthetic limbs, sight aids or any other artificial
method of correcting disabilities or disfigurement. Having
received a disfiguring wound in the line of combat is
seen as heroic and worthy of praise.
Also enshrined in law are all the religious observances
Tezcat must follow. Tezcat must recite an obligatory
prayer three times a day. There are a dozen prayers
a Tezcat may choose from, each one focusing on
a different subject or intention the Tezcat wishes to
meditate on. Obligatory prayers are often recited
in small groups, either among the family at home
or in public if at work or in another location. There
are circumstances where it is not illegal to forego
obligatory prayer, such as when Tezcat are in combat,
unconscious or suffering severe illness.
Tezcat are expected to fast during Mra’shhrowr, lasting
16 days each year. This period observes the creation
of the universe, which Tezcat believe took the Absolute
16 days to complete. During this period, Tezcat are
prohibited from eating or drinking anything while the sun
is in the sky and must abstain from all sexual activity.
Tezcat legal systems are controlled mainly by the
Shaper Church. All Tezcat have the right to a trial
overseen by a Shaper priest specialising in the law.
There are no lawyers. Likewise, no juries are involved
in deciding the guilt or innocence of the accused.
The verdict is entirely the decision of the presiding
Shaper priest or priests. Tezcat are expected to defend
themselves if accused of a crime, pleading their case
and throwing themselves at the court’s mercy.

Tezcat have no taboos regarding nudity and
therefore do not normally wear clothing for the sake
of modesty. In addition, clothing can interfere with
their ability to camouflage themselves. If climate
permits, Tezcat will wear nothing at all. Instead of
clothes, Tezcat wear harnesses or belts which have
pockets for carrying personal belongings and tools.
Occasionally, a scarf or a few scraps of cloth will be
worn for ornamental purposes.
In cold weather, Tezcat will don suitable clothing to
keep warm. They prefer to wear natural skins fashioned
from their kills if possible. Despite their dislike of
clothing, Tezcat will not refrain from wearing armour or
other protective gear when the need arises. Regardless
of what they are wearing, civilian Tezcat prefer
wearing bright solid colours, either unadorned or with
straightforward designs or patterns.
Tezcat enjoy wearing body jewellery, particularly in
their ears and tails. Most Tezcat have at least one
piercing in their ears and the tip of their tail but lips,
brows and other locations are not uncommon. Body
jewellery can be elaborate and beautiful, made from
expensive metals and sometimes adorned with
precious stones or gems. Tezcat military and paramilitary insignia consists of jewelled earrings which
denote branch and rank or rating.
Claw sheaths, designed to cover the tips of the fingers
and the claws, are also commonly worn by both male
and female Tezcat. The rings serve several purposes
but the primary ones are as a show of wealth and
to cover the claws so they do not accidentally injure
others. Claw sheaths come in an uncountable
number of styles and designs, ranging from the purely
practical to the purely artistic, impractical for nothing
else but as a fashion statement.
Tezcat art is known for its delicate and fine detail,
which is not surprising considering their fine manual
dexterity. As with most species, Tezcat appreciate many
forms of art, although the subject of most of their art
is religiously inclined, either drawing direct inspiration
from scripture or pointing the viewer towards scripture.
Calligraphy is practised by almost all Tezcat,
regardless of their talent or ability. Taught as a subject
in school, most Tezcat carry on the practice into
adulthood. Compositions typically comprise scriptural
verse and the act of creating the art is often also a

The Tezcat

Punishment for breaking the law is particularly
harsh among Tezcat. It always involves some form
of physical maiming for lesser crimes and the death
sentence for serious crimes, all dictated by Shaper
doctrine. Sophonts who differ significantly from
Tezcat and break the law are routinely killed on the
spot, no matter how minor or severe the crime, as
dangerous animals. Suffice it to say, the laws and
the right to a trial on Tezcat worlds applies only to
Tezcat. Other sophonts who at least resemble Tezcat
in form will most likely be subjected to summary
sentencing, enacted as soon as it is expedient.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE

191

