T

form of meditation where the artist meditates upon the
verse and its implications while writing it. Calligraphy
is traditionally practised on hand-made paper made
from the fibres of the Sh’eech’fft plant. However, it is
not unusual to find calligraphy on other types of paper,
cloth and stone. Brushes are also preferably made
from natural materials and ideally by the artist. Various
types of inks and paints are used but a traditional ink
called Rr-vyshh is made from the soot of Maa’shh
branches and solidified using natural gelatine. In
modern society, such hands-on detail is not always
practical, so all but the most dedicated artists use
mass-produced paper, brushes, paints and inks.
Stained glass is another art in which Tezcat excel,
with the most talented artists commanding vast sums
for their work. Stained-glass art can be found in the
windows of all Tezcat buildings but it is not unusual
for huge stained-glass pieces to be free-standing or
suspended from supports in Tezcat buildings and cities.
Artificial lights are used to illuminate and shine through
the glass where natural light is not present.
Stained-glass art has progressed from two-dimensional
pieces to intricate three-dimensional sculptural
pieces, some with separate moving parts. Such works
commonly depict heroes and battle scenes drawn from
history and religion and can be truly enormous in size
and take years or decades to complete.

The Tezcat

Tezcat stone sculpture is best described as aweinspiring. Like their buildings, Tezcat sculpt on a
megalithic scale using natural stone. Such sculptures
tower over their viewers and are used to line streets and
decorate the exterior of public buildings and temples.

192

Finesmithing has been developed into an exquisite
art by Tezcat. Their jewellery has a reputation for
being extremely beautiful and delicate. Finesmiths use
precious metals to create decorative and functional
jewellery worn by practically every Tezcat. Rings of
various types are most common, worn as piercings
in the ears, tail and body, on the fingers and toes, or
as bands on the wrist, arm, ankle or leg. Rings can
be as simple as a single band made of one precious
metal or a complex creation using multiple metals
with multiple parts intertwined and crafted in intricate
patterns. Precious stones and jewels are often
incorporated into the rings to add to their beauty.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Tezcat architecture is quite simple. Despite their
technological sophistication, they have not moved
on from megalithic-style architecture. Buildings most
commonly take the form of pyramids with a glasscovered or open courtyard in the centre. Heights
range from only a few stories to over 100, with
religious, government and corporate buildings being
the largest. Materials used in construction are natural:
huge carved stones of marble, granite, basalt or blue
stone. Where natural materials are impractical or not
cost-effective, artificial materials suffice.
Each building is surrounded by a garden, the size of
which is denoted by the owner’s wealth or the building’s
importance. Gardens contain native plants which are
allowed to grow wild, occasionally giving them an
unkempt appearance. The gardens ensure buildings
are not too close together – Tezcat do not enjoy
feeling as if they are crowded in. They act as natural
environments for small animals, which can be hunted
for food or recreation. Restrictions exist on which
gardens Tezcat can hunt. Only the owners and their
guests can hunt in the gardens surrounding private
dwellings and buildings but anyone can hunt in the
gardens surrounding public buildings.
Internally, buildings are designed with large open
spaces. Rooms are divided by paper or stained-glass
screens rather than solid walls, which makes the size
and number of rooms easy to modify. Windows are
generally constructed of stained glass or plastic, typically
depicting stories. Colourful murals decorate the walls,
typically depicting stories of victories and adventures
from history or Shaper parables. Many murals are also
accompanied by descriptive script and scripture.
Furnishings tend to be low and straightforward. Low
tables, sleeping mats and cushions comprise most
furniture in buildings – Tezcat do not use couches,
chairs or beds. Furniture is constructed of natural
materials such as intricately carved and polished
wood, sculpted metal, or natural fibres. Where natural
materials are not available, artificial ones are used but
are considered poor substitutes.
Tezcat furniture is known for its beauty. It is not
enough for their furnishings to be practical; they also
need to be pleasing to the eye. Like other decorated
items, furniture is adorned with carvings of real or
mythical heroes and animals, depicting scenes from
history and scripture. Sleeping mats and cushions are
likewise heavily decorated, the images either printed or
embroidered onto the material. Hand-made furnishings
are highly prized by Tezcat who can afford them.

R

