RECREATION

Training in primitive weapons is more of an adherence
to tradition than practicality in the modern day. Still,
clubs, swords, bows and more are taught to young
Tezcat as part of their primary education. The practice
sometimes continues into adulthood. Competitions
using primitive weapons are a common spectator
sport and the most talented competitors can become
quite famous and wealthy. Attending live exhibitions of
primitive weaponry skill is also a popular pastime.

Hunting is another popular Tezcat pastime. Tezcat
parents take an active interest in training their young
in the hunt. Young Tezcat get the chance to hone their
hunting skills, practice using their natural weapons and
improve their reflexes. Tezcat enjoy hunting for food
and prefer to bring down a kill using their teeth and
claws rather than artificial weapons. Despite rumours to
the contrary, Tezcat do not hunt what they consider to
be other sophonts except for Droyne and Chirpers.
Games of all sorts are enjoyed by Tezcat, both as
spectators and participants. Simple games like tag,
blind man’s bluff and hide and seek are popular
among the young – older Tezcat enjoy similar but more
complex games. Games that garner the most favour
replicate the act of hunting.

The Tezcat

Tezcat participate in a broad range of recreational
activities. The study of martial arts is taught to Tezcat
from a young age, with most continuing the practice
into adulthood as a form of exercise and meditation.
The three martial levels are natural, primitive and
advanced. Natural martial arts involve teeth and
claws and rarely use blunt blows or strikes. There
are 23 schools of natural martial arts, each with its
own style and techniques. The schools developed
from different Tezcat cultures, which is one way they
maintain their cultural heritage.

Tezcat see advanced weapon use as a duty,
improving their ability to attack the unholy
monstrosities that pollute the universe. They can
choose from hundreds of advanced weapons, each
with variations, to suit every conceivable need.

193

