T

Wrestling is a prevalent sport among the Tezcat,
drawing huge crowds of spectators and enjoyed by all
ages. Popular and skilful wrestlers can gain equivalent
fame in the hegemony as modern music and holo
stars do in the Third Imperium. Tezcat wrestling is
very acrobatic, with opponents leaping, dodging,
pouncing and grappling. The matches are held in an
open heptagon the combatants must remain within.
Winning can be achieved by forcing an opponent out of
the ring, forcing an opponent to submit, or restraining
an opponent in a hold which leaves them helpless for
10 seconds. Wrestling requires the claws and teeth
of the athletes to be covered so they cannot be used,
although underground wrestling organisations exist
where highly illegal ‘bare claw and tooth’ matches take
place. Most Tezcat schools have several wrestling
teams grouped into age and weight divisions.
Tezcat religion is fully integrated into their society.
Attending religious services is seen as an obligation
and used to educate the masses in correct
thought and behaviour. Aside from their religious
commitments, Tezcat enjoy attending religious events
as entertainment. Plays are often conducted, depicting
parables or scenes from scripture. They are enjoyed
by both young and old. Religious media productions
such as movies and series are also consumed for their
entertainment value and religious significance. The
Shaper Church must approve all religious productions
before they can be released to the public.

The Tezcat

Reading scripture, storytelling and poetry are
common among Tezcat, who use them for meditation
or to seek answers to philosophical questions. Tezcat
also enjoy attending scripture study groups, both
informal groups and those organised by the Shaper
Church. Study groups help hone the understanding
of the Shaper scriptures and reinforce a sense of
community among members.

194

Along with scripture, Tezcat enjoy a racy tale or story.
Contradictory as it may seem, sensual and erotic
tales may also cause embarrassment or shame for
the author or consumer.
Similarly, Tezcat enjoy sensual dance and performance,
which are not prohibited by their strict theocracy.
Dances are shamelessly erotic and involve one or more
Tezcat of both genders, moving provocatively alone
and together with detailed choreography, and can often
develop into an impromptu sexual performance.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Dance is accompanied by music such as
percussion, wind and string instruments. Tezcat
instruments are acoustic in nature and never
electric. They find electronically generated music
harsh on their ears and lacking artistic value.
Singing as an art form is not practised by Tezcat
except during religious services where Shaper
priests orate scripture in a lilting sing-song voice.

BUSINESS
Tezcat have not founded any megacorporations and
only a few of their corporations have spread across
more than one planet. This is not surprising considering
the sparsity of habitable worlds in Reft.
All Tezcat business conducted between themselves or
with other species must adhere to the rules stipulated
by Shaper doctrine. Contracts should be fair to all
parties. Partnerships are preferred to hierarchical
arrangements where one business or party is superior
to another. Speculation is prohibited – gambling is
illegal on Tezcat worlds and indulging in speculative
trade is considered gambling. Charging or earning
interest is forbidden, as is the trading of alcohol
or recreational drugs. Lastly, handling money is
considered unclean, requiring transactions to occur
electronically or remotely if possible.
Since their advent into the stellar community, Tezcat
mercenaries have made a name for themselves
and have become a remarkably lucrative business.
They make exemplary warriors, particularly in black,
commando, counterinsurgency operations – if their
anti-psionic, religious and racial prejudices are catered
for. Care must be taken in keeping a firm hand on the
leash of any Tezcat mercenaries – they are prone to
occasional massacres and despoiling places of worship.
Tezcat mercenaries are fearless warriors with no
qualms attacking the enemies of species whose
appearance differs only slightly from their own,
especially if the enemies are abominations or use
psionics. The Imperium and the Aslan have utilised
Tezcat mercenaries, especially during the Frontier
Wars, where they zealously fought against the
Zhodani Consulate. Several Tezcat companies
specialise in providing mercenary groups ranging in
size from squads to regiments.
Apart from the mercenary trade, Tezcat have an active
merchant fleet which trades within their empire and, to
a lesser extent, with their stellar neighbours. Generally,
raw materials are imported to Aum-rhar and Zamoran,

R

