and manufactured goods are exported to the other
four colonies. Items such as intoxicants, recreational
chemicals and artistic expression considered heretical
or politically subversive are prohibited or heavily taxed.

Frr’arrl, loosely translated as the soulhunters. They
serve the Solar Hegemony directly and are a combined
naval and marine force charged with invasion and
strike missions into enemy territory.

Tezcat trade with other species is limited by their
trust and xenophobia. Even in a society of zealots,
there are those whose faith is not so strongly inclined
and are eager to import higher Tech Level goods or
pay high prices to those merchants willing to cross
the Rift to trade with them.

The Solar Hegemony has the authority to commandeer
the armed forces of its member worlds to boost military
strength and enable it to field forces far over what
would be expected from such a small polity.

Tezcat manufacture TL12 goods of decent quality
and their weapons are considered first-rate. Tezcat
artisans are well known for their superior stainedglass artefacts, with antiques and even modern
creations fetching high prices among collectors.
Recorded visions of Tezcat sensual dances and
plays and recordings of religious rites – including
sacrifices – are considered exotic enough to interest
some Imperial citizens. Tezcat have little interest in
the cultural goods of other sophonts but high-tech
equipment is always in great demand.
In addition to sanctioned trade, some smuggling
always occurs, usually via Tezcat criminal elements
importing goods from alien worlds considered
heretical by the theocracy. Smugglers may be hired
to sneak humanoid sophonts onto Tezcat worlds but
once they are there, any uninvited species’ chances of
evading detection and execution are slim.

THE MILITARY

Military organisations each specialise in a specific field
or area of combat, such as peacekeeping, planetary
defence, aerial offence and invasion. The most famous
and feared Tezcat military force is the Grranshss

Naval forces are equipped with TL12 vessels and
equipment. A few elite units are outfitted with TL13 and
even TL14 inventory imported from beyond the Solar
Hegemony. Tezcat spaceships are explicitly designed
for operations in the Rift. Spacecraft are capable
of jump-2 or jump-3 and are equipped with extra,
collapsible or drop tankage to allow for multiple jumps
through empty space without the need to refuel.
Squadrons are based around a single enormous
broodship – a large vessel which carries extra
fuel, food, materials and workshops to reduce the
dependency on extended supply lines. Broodships
are only lightly armed and armoured to make as
much room as possible available for their inventory.
Smaller guardships are assigned in groups of three
to protect broodships from harm.
Tezcat make good use of fighter craft regardless of
how flimsy they may be. Putting one’s life in the direct
line of danger is considered highly commendable to
Tezcat and fighter pilots are seen as great warriors
and heroes. Fighter craft range in size from light
fighters of 10 d-tons armed with little more than a
single fixed mount laser to heavy bombers of up to
150 tons armed with torpedoes or barbettes designed
to be a risk to even capital ships.
Naval forces frequently use strategic deception and
ambush tactics. They take full advantage of hit-andrun tactics to lure unaware targets into ambushes.
Gas giants are the usual staging grounds for
ambushes, where most of a fleet lies in hiding below
the clouds and pounces when a bait ship draws in the
enemy. Fleets frequently utilise Oort cloud refuelling
operations before striking into an enemy system to
ensure they have enough fuel to jump out again if
retreat becomes necessary. Finally, Tezcat engineers
are experts in rapidly establishing waystations and
fuel depots in interstellar space.

The Tezcat

Tezcat are very patriotic and see military service as an
honour and duty. Each Tezcat world has its own military
services, as does the Solar Hegemony. Only veterans
and Shaper priests are permitted to vote on most
Tezcat worlds, making military service an attractive
option for those who wish to participate in democracy
but have no interest in pursuing a career in the church.
Many young Tezcat will spend their first term in a
military career, gaining the right to vote and switching to
another career path. Many veterans remain part of their
respective reserve forces, even after retirement.

NAVY OPERATIONS

195

