T

ARMY AND MARINE OPERATIONS
Marine forces contain a high proportion of special
operations troops and combat engineers and are
skilled in mine warfare. All troops exhibit excellent
camouflage discipline, as expected for a species for
whom hiding comes naturally. They are outfitted with
the best military gear available at either their world’s
Tech Level or TL12 for hegemony troops, with elite
forces outfitted with imported TL13 equipment. While
they have and use gravtanks and APCs, Tezcat
forces prefer artillery over armour. A common tactic
employed is using special forces to set artillery
ambushes and lure enemies into killing zones.
Tezcat mercenary forces are usually ex-soulhunter
marines and can be found throughout the Great Rift
and neighbouring states. All mercenary and regular
forces include Shaper priests, who exercise authority
second only to unit commanders.
There are unconfirmed rumours that Tezcat officers on
detached duty in the mercenary troops of other species
gather information on how they conduct combat. The
veracity of this rumour is yet to be ascertained.

LANGUAGE

The Tezcat

Tezcat speech is a mixture of hissing sibilants and low
throaty growls. It has a disorganised structure where
the same words with different tonal inflections convey
different meanings. Tezcat interaction also includes
a significant amount of body language, particularly
skin colour changes, tail posture and ear movements,

196

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

which are unconscious indicators of the speaker and
listener’s mood and intentions. It is a complex language
for most other sophonts to learn but can be mastered
with diligence and study; their body language is almost
impossible to emulate without the correct anatomy.
Tezcat names tend to be fanciful and descriptive,
comprising a string of soft words. Names are chosen
by the child’s parents and are based on the parents’
hopes and aspirations for the child. Mothers select the
names of their sons and fathers of their daughters. The
words sume (son) and mra (daughter) are included in
the name and used to tell a male or female name apart.
As Tezcat are instinctively aggressive, many names
are war-like in nature, for example, Sheethyrrr Mrohr
Mra Rrarrathra Kithrsss, which translates roughly to
Bloodied Claw who Tears the Heart, Daughter of Silent
Death, Bringer of Lament.

WRITTEN LANGUAGE
Tezcat writing is easier to learn and is rather beautiful.
Originating from the claw marks left on trees to denote
territory by Proto-Tezcat, symbols developed to denote
such things as danger, availability and what types of
prey were in the area. Several alphabets developed
and were slowly incorporated until only one is
commonly used. Consisting of a combination of straight
lines, squiggled lines and dots, the written language
can be quite beautiful. The alphabet comprises only 15
letters, with punctuation using words instead of symbols
and placed at the front of sentences to denote surprise,
question and exclamation. Diacritical marks are used to
indicate tone to eliminate confusion.

R

