MOODS AND GESTURES
Tezcat rely heavily on body language to impart
mood and intention, which is very different from
human body language.
The tail is an excellent indicator of Tezcat mood.
A slow swishing of the tail from side-to-side
usually expresses anxiety and stress. A tail
sticking straight out and back displays anger
or fear. Happiness is shown with the tail held
loosely upright in the air. A dragging tail indicates
depression. If a Tezcat tail is hidden between
its legs, it is badly frightened. The tail tip’s slow,
teasing motion is considered very sexy in both
sexes, as are cold defiant stares.
The ears are also highly expressive. Twitching
indicates amusement, laid flat they indicate
readiness or nervousness. Held upright and open
indicated alertness or intense concentration.
The use of skin colour is also significant in
communication and even subtle variations can
indicate shifts in mood and intention. As a result,
Tezcat do not hide their feelings – their skin
will shift colours and patterns in unconscious
response to their underlying emotions. Therefore,
they have learned not to lie to each other, as the
truth would be quite evident to any observers.
They do not mince words to be diplomatic or
tell white lies to protect feelings. They do not
hesitate to express anger or annoyance. Other
species find the shifts in skin colour far too swift
and difficult to understand.
Body language is also crucial in social
encounters. Tezcat do not look each other directly
in the eye, as it is seen as a challenge. Respect
is signalled by exposing the throat. A Tezcat who

is about to attack will become unnaturally still
as their skin shifts to mimic the background, lay
their ears back, stick their tail straight out, stare
directly into their opponent’s eyes and bare their
teeth in a wide ‘grin’. Low growls or ticking noises
may also accompany this. Happy Tezcat usually
retain their natural skin colour, keep ears upright
and present an open stance. When sexually
excited, Tezcat display wildly shifting colours and
growl low in the throat.
It is important to note that Tezcat do not show
their teeth when they smile – baring the teeth
is an act of aggression and a warning of an
impending attack. Instead, Tezcat express
happiness with slow eye blinks. Tezcat often
confuse the toothy smiles used by other
sophonts as threats, usually too late for their
unfortunate victim to realise their mistake.
Mood

Gesture

Dismissive Wide yawn exposing teeth.
Flirtatious

Gentle swaying of the tip of the
tail, unblinking stare into the eyes.

Frustration Open-shut flare of the nostril and
twitching of the tail.
Laughter

Twitching of the ear and tail.

Readiness Ears laid back and flat.
Puzzlement Sniffs the air, slightly raised muzzle.
Claw rake in front of own body
from left shoulder to right hip.

Slyness

Half-lidded eyes and twitch of the tail.

Happy

Ears held upright, slow eye blinks.

Threat

Sniffs the air, tail held stiff.

Worry

Ears laid back and flat, slow
swishing of the tail.

The Tezcat

Salute

197

