THE TEZCAT HOMEWORLD
Aum-rhar (A857948-C) is in the Two Little subsector
of Reft. The world is the second of 10 planets in orbit
around a K9 V orange main sequence star locally
known as Lemente. Aum-rhar resides in orbit at an
average distance of 0.49 astronomical units. Aum-rhar
orbits close enough to its primary to be constantly in
its jump shadow, requiring incoming ships to either
enter or leave jump at the shadow’s edge, increasing
the travel time in space. Aum-rhar has an orbital period
of 160 days, 8 hours and 16 minutes, with a rotational
period of 26 hours, 13 minutes and 54 seconds.
Aum-rhar has a diameter of 13,200 kilometres and an
axial tilt of 0 degrees. Both poles are ice-capped and
the climate is generally wet and cool, with frequent
rain and fog. Seasonal changes are minor and only
caused by the planet’s slightly elliptical orbit.

Aum-rhar possesses a thin atmosphere at
approximately 0.5 at sea level. The atmosphere
is a standard mix of 80% nitrogen, 19% oxygen
and one percent other gases. Visitors to the planet
can breathe the atmosphere without assistance or
protection. However, care must be taken to minimise
exertion to avoid altitude sickness before the body
has had time to adapt to the rarefied air.
Orbiting at 90,272 kilometres is Aum-rhar’s only
satellite, Ilynd, which completes an orbit every 21 days
and 45 minutes. Ilynd is tidally locked to Aum-rhar and
is massive enough to stabilise any axial wobble the
planet may experience. The moon exerts sufficient tidal
forces on Aum-rhar to affect the ocean tides.
Ilynd has a very thin atmosphere and projects have
been undertaken to make it breathable. The moon
only has a permanent population of just over 3,000
permanent residents and is also the site of several
industrial plants and scientific enclaves. Ilynd is
also known for hosting the personal residence
of the elected High priest of the Shaper Church.
The complex includes church libraries and master
computer files, a training centre, a medical centre
and a domed hunting park incorporating plants and
animals from many worlds.

GEOGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY
Aum-rhar is a rocky world with a dense core made
of iron. It has a higher density than standard, giving
the planet a gravity of 1.35G. A magnetic field
generated by the rotation of the core protects the
planet’s atmosphere from being stripped away by the
solar wind and helps deflect cosmic radiation from
the world. The crust is still geologically active and
divided into six major tectonic plates. Volcanism is
relatively common, with eruptions occurring between
45 and 65 times yearly.

198

