Four major continents dominate Aum-rhar’s surface,
with Norhas and Marrash in the northern hemisphere
and Rahresheft and Isshas in the southern hemisphere.
Several large volcanic islands are in the oceans along
major fault lines. Two large oceans, the Varn-ou and
the Hrnaar-ef, straddle both hemispheres while a third
large ocean, Narhraow, is in the northern hemisphere.
Several smaller seas are in both hemispheres.
Mountains tend to be low and squat due to Aum-rhar’s
high gravity, although the thin atmosphere has caused
little erosion, making them jagged and hazardous.
The presiding cool temperatures and heavy
precipitation heavily influence the environment.
The dominant environments are cool forests in
the temperate regions, cool rainforests nearer the
equator and tundra and glaciers in the polar regions.
Dry, hot deserts are rare on Aum-rhar.

NATIVE LIFE FORMS

The native life of Aum-rhar is carbon-based, with a DNA
analogue utilising a G-quadruplex structure. Amino
acids have a right-handed chirality and sugars have
a left-handed chirality, the opposite of what is found
on Terra, meaning while organisms bearing different
chirality will not be poisoned by consuming food from
Aum-rhar, little nutrition will be gained and vice versa.

Fungal analogues have not evolved on Aum-rhar.
Instead, the role of decomposers is performed by
a wide variety of bacteria, some of which are large
enough to be seen with the naked eye.
Animal life is highly evolved and diverse. Several
mass extinctions have resulted in the evolution of
a succession of dominant lifeforms and imparted
additional development. Since the last extinction event
45 million years ago, vertebrate mammal analogues
have emerged as the dominant land-based lifeform.

Vertebrates are bilaterally symmetrical quadrupeds
with closed cardiovascular systems. They possess two
main body parts – a head and a body. Most sensory
organs are on the head, including two eyes, two ears,
a nose and mouth. Mouths consist of a mandible which
opens vertically. Fur has not evolved on Aum-rhar.
Instead, quills have evolved from scales and act as a
fur analogue on many mammaloids.
Invertebrates are generally bilaterally symmetrical
with a closed cardiovascular system. Although not
as numerous, there are also examples of radial and
trilateral symmetrical invertebrates. All invertebrates
possess an external skeleton and a variable number
of paired legs and eyes. Body sections also vary
between a combined head/body, a defined head and
body, and a head/body/abdomen design.
Flight has evolved several times on Aum-rhar
but proves problematic with the low atmospheric
pressure and heavy gravity. Flying lifeforms have
adapted with long wingspans, hollow support
structures and narrow bodies to compensate.
Fossil evidence has shown that Aum-rhar has
had, up to the relatively recent past many highly
dangerous lifeforms, which have since become
extinct by either natural processes or Tezcat
intervention. Significant numbers of dangerous
creatures still exist on the planet, with a notable
proportion using venom and natural camouflage as
offensive and defensive adaptions.

STARPORT
Aum-rhar has a starport with all the services a
Traveller would expect from a Class A facility within
the Third Imperium. The starport comprises a large
orbital highport and a smaller surface downport near
the capital city of Aum-ftar’ryt. Interstellar traffic is
directed to the highport, with only local and otherwise
authorised traffic using the downport. As Aum-rhar is
not a client of the Third Imperium, nor is the starport
administered by the Starport Authority, it does not
act as an extrality zone and all Aum-rhar and Solar
Hegemony laws apply to visitors.

The Tezcat Homeworld

Plant life is similar to examples found on other worlds
in Charted space, ranging from simple algae to tree
analogues. Plants tend to be short and thick, with taller
tree analogues utilising a silica matrix in their cell walls
to provide additional strength. Plants use cellulose in
their cell walls for strength. The reduced light spectrum
emitted by the sun has led to leaves being shades of
red, with lighter reds near the equator and darker reds
nearer the poles. Plants have evolved flowers to attract
life forms to assist in pollination.

Other significant lifeforms include vertebrate reptoamphibians, which can live on land but require water
to reproduce, found on land and water, and various
invertebrate analogues. Ocean life is dominated
by multiple vertebrate piscine forms, followed by
invertebrate medusoid and crustacean analogues.
Vertebrate reptile analogues dominate avian life.

201

