T

Considering its isolated location, the highport still
services approximately 50 interstellar spacecraft
daily, with room to berth and dock up to 400 vessels
simultaneously. Ships up to 1,000-tons can be berthed
internally, while larger vessels must dock outside the
port. Several shipyards capable of constructing craft
up to 50,000-tons and one up to 5,000,000-tons, are
located nearby at a higher orbit.
The highport is disk-shaped, with eight arms
extending at uneven intervals where larger vessels
dock. Curved connecting structures link several
arms to facilitate movement around the disc without
moving directly into it.
Located centrally on the top of the disk is a large
transparent dome through which the red vegetation
of a biome is visible. Arranged unevenly around
the dome are several tall step pyramids containing
administration, flight control and military offices. The
most significant step pyramid houses the governmental
and administrative offices of the Solar Hegemony, the
assembly hall and the high Shaper court. Around the
sides of the disk are bays for smaller vessels to dock.

The Tezcat Homeworld

One-quarter of the highport and two of the docking
arms are reserved for the Solar Hegemony and
Aum-rhar navies. The rest is intended for both
commercial and private use.

202

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Within the disc, closest to the inside edge, are the
terminals which connect to the berthing bays and
docking arms, allowing passengers and crew to embark
and disembark. The terminals lead to the concourse
where commercial and entertainment offer wares,
itinerant accommodation, customs and other customerbased administrative functions. The warehouses,
workshops and operational functions are located under
this level, which maintain the highport.
Extending below the disk is another group of tall,
inverted step pyramids which contain the powerplant,
fuel and water storage, and other maintenance functions.
Over a dozen shuttles offering affordable passage
leave the highport daily for the downport. Other
shuttles destined for other spaceports on Aum-rhar
depart intermittently. Other shuttles ferrying cargo are
scheduled to depart between the passenger shuttles.
The downport is relatively small compared to the
highport, covering an area of three square kilometres.
A high wall surrounds the downport with only one public
entry and exit, although there are several entries and
exits reserved for use by employees. It is primarily
a cargo handling facility but there are adequate
provisions for passenger use. The landing facilities can
support craft up to a maximum of 5,000-tons. Berthing
facilities are available for up to 50 vessels at a time.

R

