A large step pyramid is the location of the downport
administrative centre. It coordinates with the highport
to ensure a safe interface between orbit to surface
and back. In addition to administration, the limited
passenger services and terminals are located here.
Numerous large warehouses are situated between
the berthing bays where cargo is examined by
customs and stored before being loaded onto ships or
distributed across the planet.
The downport is also a significant gravport,
providing public transport through hired gravcars,
taxis and trams, which shuttle passengers between
cities around the planet.

TECH LEVEL

Aum-rhar is a mature TL12 world. Weapons technology
is slightly more advanced and is at a late TL12
sophistication with some very early TL13 capabilities.
Computer technology is lower at a mature TL11.
Medical technology is the lowest, being at only a
mature TL10 sophistication.
Astronomical observation technology is highly
developed and has impacted gravitic research.
Tezcat are reasonable but unexceptional engineers,
except in advanced ceramics, glass and composites,
in which they excel. Tezcat use automated robot
factories to make most goods and can manufacture
them to individual specifications.

GOVERNMENT

Unlike the Solar Hegemony, the lower house does have
an executive branch headed by a hruavist, or president,
and their staff, who have veto rights on all legislation
brought forward in the lower house. The president is
elected by popular vote by the Shaper priests in the
upper house from the lower house members.

Elections for the lower house occur approximately
every five standard years and there is no limit to the
number of terms a member may be re-elected. The
president’s election is also held every five years, if
necessary, after the elections for the lower house are
concluded. Membership in the upper house is for life
and elections only occur when a seat becomes vacant
through death, illness or retirement.

LAW LEVEL

The Law Level on Aum-rhar is 8; all bladed weapons
and stunners or greater are prohibited, as are all
addictive drugs, including alcohol, caffeine, nicotine
and similar stimulants, as well as entertainment and
publications considered heretical or radical.
While the law appears high, there are notable
exceptions. While it is illegal to import, possess or
carry any prohibited weapon, there are locations where
Tezcat can learn to use and practice the use of such
prohibited weapons. Every city and town has at least
one school where primitive weapon use is taught, as
there are firing ranges where firearms can be rented
and shot on-premises. Legally, an ordinary Tezcat may
seek authority to possess a restricted weapon where
they can prove an understanding of how to use and
abide by the laws prohibiting open carry. Military, police
personnel and security guards are permitted a greater
latitude in the weapons they may carry in their duties.
Suffice it to say that where there is any form of
prohibition, there is always a healthy black market for
those items. Almost any Tezcat can obtain a desired
weapon with the proper knowledge or contacts,
often at a hefty price. Likewise, drugs and forbidden
entertainment or information are available for Tezcat
willing to pay the cost and risk getting caught. The
black-market demand fuels a vigorous smuggling
trade of prohibited goods. Smuggling operations are
generally controlled by powerful crime families and
cartels, which cause problems when territoriality or the
right of supply comes into question.

The Tezcat Homeworld

The government of Aum-rhar is like the Solar
Hegemony in that it has an upper and lower house. The
upper house comprises Shaper priests elected to those
positions by the church clergy and has veto rights on
all bills put forward by the lower house on religious or
moral grounds. The lower house comprises individuals
elected to those positions by voters and represents
those voters in political and legislative matters. Only
military veterans or Shaper priests are permitted to vote
in the elections for the lower house.

The president selects from the lower house members
a nraw-uft, or minister, to head particular committees
and the administrative offices which oversee specific
portfolios, such as the Committee for Finance, the
Committee for Planetary Ground Defence and the
Committee for Education. The minister is responsible
for bringing bills to the lower house for decision.

203

