T

The judiciary system on Aum-rhar is convoluted
and confusing to outsiders. There are several
law enforcement agencies, each with an area of
specialisation. Conflicts occur where crime falls under
the jurisdiction of one or more authorities. In these cases,
authorities are expected to cooperate but competition
and resentment are often fierce. While the Shaper
religion heavily influences all laws, there is a separate
police force comprising solely of Shaper priests, which
deal exclusively with religious law infractions.

The Tezcat Homeworld

Tezcat are presumed guilty until proven innocent in a
court of law. There are no lawyers on Aum-rhar and the
accused are expected to defend themselves. Trials are
always heard by a Shaper priest who has specialised in
the branch of law involved. They are solely responsible
for determining the accused’s innocence and setting
sentences. Sentencing is harsh by the standards of
other species. Most involve amputating a limb or organ,
and many involve execution. Crimes which draw the
death penalty include showing contempt or disrespect
for the Absolute, speaking against church doctrine,
stealing or misappropriating sacred objects, disfiguring
the Tezcat form and murder.

204

Tezcat who have been declared guilty in court have the
right to appeal the decision through Mwarba-fa – a trial
by combat. Mwarba-fa is always to the death, so often,
only those criminals who have been given a death
sentence request it. The court can deny Mwarba-fa but
rarely do. The court assigns a specialist Shaper priest,
called a Hari or Partisan, to act as its representative in
the combat. Only natural weapons and the ceremonial
tzasai knife are permitted during the trial. Such
trials are always public. If the accused successfully
dispatches the Hari, their guilty conviction is overturned
and they are free to return to society.
Mwarba-fa challenges are often grouped into events
which spectators can purchase tickets to attend or
watch via paid live broadcast. Such events draw huge
crowds, especially when the accused is notorious, or
the Hari has achieved fame due to their skill.
The execution of criminals who choose not to appeal
is always the duty of the Shaper priests, who time
executions to coincide with significant rituals. Criminals
await execution in prisons where they are treated well
and permitted to interact with each other.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

MILITARY

Aum-rhar funnels a significant proportion of its budget
towards military capability. It can field a strong defence
comprising ground, airborne and space capabilities.
Planetary forces include 2,200 regiments for a total
of 11,000 battalions, 500 of which are lift-capable. Of
the battalions, 4,000 are active, with the remainder
comprising reservists. Furthermore, a militia of 560
million regiments can be raised in an emergency or to
defend the planet as a last resort.
The military is equipped with top-of-the-line TL12 gear,
with elite forces equipped with gear imported at TL13.
The Aum-rhar military favours artillery over armour and
lift battalions, which their assets reflect.
Space naval forces are similarly impressive, comprising
heavily armed and armoured system defence boats,
monitors and jump-capable warships. The Aum-rhar
flagship, named the Shtav Marinaf Ou Vashrnow –
Destroyer of Worlds, Stalker in the Endless Void – is a
60,000-ton armoured cruiser bristling with turrets and
boasting a meson spinal mount.

ECONOMY
Aum-rhar is a high-population garden world with a
strong labour force composed of live and automated
components. Due to the isolated location of Aumrhar, the planet is only of ordinary importance.
A robust infrastructure supports the world’s
population, making the movement of individuals
and goods easy. Primary exports include alloys,
mechanical goods and information.
Tezcat consumer products are often beautifully
designed with intricate and delicate patterns and
images that tell a religious or moral story. While
beautiful, they are no more functional than those
produced by other sophonts.

DEMOGRAPHICS

Aum-rhar has a population of eight billion, practically
100% Tezcat. The tiny fractional percentage that are
not are individuals who have successfully undergone
Incarnation and consider themselves Tezcat or are
in the process of undertaking Incarnation either
voluntarily or not.

R

