CULTURE

Before unification under a world government, the
cultures of Aum-rhar were territorial and aggressive.
Wars were frequent and even after global unification
and minor conflicts still occurred. Aum-rhar is
dominated by the A’Pur culture, originating in the
eastern island of Marrash. They conquered the other
Tezcat nations in 920 through technological superiority
and fanatical belief; after this, the A’Pur wrestled control
of the Solar Hegemony, further spreading their culture.
While it is fair to say Tezcat are a religious species,
those on Aum-rhar are said to have a burning and
unwavering faith of fanatical proportions. They couch
every action they take, every word they speak in the
precepts of the Shaper religion. They see themselves
as the only shining example of what it is to be true
Tezcat. Even Tezcat from other worlds sometimes
find their homeworld counterparts zealously
unreasonable in their faith.
Small enclaves of the conquered nations’ cultures still
exist on Aum-rhar and other planets of the hegemony.
Most have successfully integrated with the dominant
A’Pur culture. However, others occasionally attempt
to resist or overthrow the current regime, which is the
primary cause of small conflicts on the planet.

URBANISATION

Industry is typically located in orbit, so cities are clean
and unpolluted. Power is generated almost exclusively
by fusion plants and supplemented by other forms

Vehicles generally use clean forms of energy. Electric
and hydrogen batteries are the most common,
with micro-fusion plants in larger vehicles. Ground
vehicles are banned from using the city streets
during daylight hours but autonomous vehicles
hum through the city streets at night. Automated
grav vehicles, both public and private, fly seemingly
haphazardly like buzzing insects in the skies above
the cities. All traffic within city limits is managed by
a central traffic control computer, which controls all
vehicles, monitors traffic and prevents collisions.
Farming is not valued highly by Tezcat and is not
a sought-after profession – especially vegetable
farming. Cities are typically surrounded by vast tracts
of agricultural land where the few domesticated food
animals are reared. Minimal land is set aside for
horticulture, as fruit and vegetables are not in great
demand. Most of the work on farms is performed by
robots with oversight by a farmer.

PLACES AND EVENTS
Aum-rhar sees many Tezcat tourists and pilgrims but is
not exactly welcoming to visitors of other species. Still,
some rather interesting locations and events should not
be missed if the chance to visit them presents itself.
Rifsh Kasang ou Mraa-assht Kis-nouraou: Located
in the capital city of A’Purr-Hrnash, the Rifsh Kasang
ou Mraa-assht Kis-nouraou – High and Most Holy
Temple of the Shaper Church – is the centre of the
Shaper Church on Aum-rhar and contains the personal
residences of the members of ruling Holy Council.
The temple resembles an enormous step pyramid
constructed of massive, polished obsidian blocks and
stands over 100 stories tall. Towering over all the other
buildings around it and located in the very centre of the
city, it is surrounded by a walled lush and wild garden
which all manner of local wildlife have populated for
the temple occupants to hunt. The avenues leading to
the temple are lined with enormous statues of religious
figures, presenting a truly awe-inspiring sight.
Only a restricted area of the temple is open for visitors,
including the massive Shaper cathedral, which
occupies the pyramid’s centre and is open to the sky.
The cathedral’s walls hold the skulls and skeletal

The Tezcat Homeworld

Aum-rhar cities and towns are generally located on
seacoasts, lakes or rivers. They are attractive, with
wide avenues dotted with towering statues, trees and
bushes. All Tezcat cities are lively and chaotic but
are generally built on a similar plan – the largest and
tallest buildings are in the city’s centre, with buildings
gradually decreasing in size and height as they move
towards the edge. Commanding the centre of every
Tezcat city is a Shaper temple with its gardens and
parks. Surrounding the church are government and
administration buildings and their surrounding gardens.
Other business buildings tend to form the next section
of the city and finally, the abodes of private citizens,
with those of the wealthiest closer to the centre and
the poorest at the edges. Randomly interspersed
throughout cities are hunting parks where Tezcat may
relax and hunt for sport or sustenance.

of renewable energy. Power is normally centrally
generated and distributed throughout the city and
infrastructure is well-maintained and comprehensive.

205

