T

remains of millions of dead Tezcat, with those of more
important individuals placed higher towards the central
opening. Various areas of the cathedral are sectioned
off, with beautiful stained-glass screens depicting
tales taken from Shaper scripture. The remainder
of the pyramid closed to the general public includes
the private residences of the Holy Council members,
private chapels, administration offices, computer
records archives, surgical suites and holding cells for
involuntary Incarnations. On the outside of the temple
structure are landing platforms for church grav vehicles.
Restricted areas are monitored both electronically and
by Hari Shaper priest guards.

The Tezcat Homeworld

Rhfistt Narwaou-hssh Maraaft Ke: Scattered across
Aum-rhar are the ancient execution pits known
as Rhfistt Narwaou-hssh Maraaft Ke –The Pits of
Becoming Nothing – used in the time before spaceflight
as the ritual execution sites for Tezcat sacrifices. Most
pits are ancient and located near Tezcat cities but some
are distant and difficult to reach. Each pit is surrounded
by huge megaliths, which still raises questions about
how primitive technology moved them from quarries
often kilometres away and stood them upright. Most
pits are no longer in use but some still see regular
sacrifices being performed at them.

206

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Chfashh-shiffke Mraa Shaast: The most important
event for all Tezcat is the Chfashh-shiffke Mraa Shaast
– The Day of Deliverance. This festival celebrates
the defeat of the Varaku and the release of Tezcat
from slavery. It is a debauched affair where Tezcat
re-enact events of the war, burn effigies of Varaku and
partake in carnal pleasures. While the possession and
consumption of alcohol are expressly forbidden any
other time on Aum-rhar, during the Day of Deliverance
festivities, the imbibing of an alcoholic beverage made
of blessed and fermented Shfraavsht blood known as
Shfraa is permitted. Shfraa is fermented and sold by
Shaper priests specifically for the festival.

ANIMAL ENCOUNTERS

The animal life on Aum-rhar tends to be short-tempered,
dangerous and aggressive. Even small herbivores
are more likely to turn and attack a predator than flee.
These traits have put Aum-rhar’s native life in high
demand among those who enjoy challenging hunts.
Tezcat have also exported many animals to their colony
worlds, where they are kept in hunting parks. There
has even been some trade in Aum-rhar herbivores as
food animals to planets outside of the Solar Hegemony,
although due to their aggressive nature, they are not as
common as most other trade animals.

R

