TEZCAT HISTORY
Tezcat are relative newcomers to the galactic stage
but have managed to carve out a small interstellar
empire for themselves, fight several wars and unite
their world under one government.
Tezcat evolved from social hunting predators whose
chameleon skin and poison fangs let them effectively
ambush and bring down prey. While their physical
abilities are fierce by Humaniti’s standards, their
homeworld Aum-rhar’s fossil records suggest Tezcat
were naked and unarmed compared to many of their
planet’s other prehistoric lifeforms. This forced them
to rely on intelligent cooperation to survive. In fact,
the Tezcat were the second species on Aum-rhar to
develop intelligence, sharing the planet with the Varaku,
a carnivorous type of amphibious pseudo-reptile.

PREHISTORY

Approximately 3,500,000 years ago, two species on
Aum-rhar began evolving towards sophoncy. The
species which would evolve into the Varaku ventured
out from their aquatic homes and started a primarily
land-based settlement. Alhough still tied to their lakes
and swamps to reproduce, the proto-Varaku spread
into the fog-shrouded forests for food. Unbeknownst to
the proto-Varaku, they had ventured into the hunting
territories of another predator, one that could change
its skin colour and possessed a venomous bite – the
proto-Tezcat. As the two species hunted the same
prey animals, a direct competition was inevitable,
placing evolutionary pressures on both species. The
competition forced the proto-Tezcat out of their typical
environment and the evolution of a larger brain to
adapt to their changing conditions.
By -3000000, proto-Varaku had started to walk upright,
freeing their hands to use rudimentary stone tools. At
approximately the same time, they learned to build
water-filled pools for their eggs and young, allowing
them to move away from the waterways they had been
tied to. Able to spread further inland, proto-Varaku
continued to compete for territory and food with protoTezcat, pushing them out of their environment.

210

By -2000000, Tezcat ancestors diverged from the
lineage, leading to Tezheerekti, the closest living
relatives of modern Tezcat. Proto-Tezcat had also
begun to walk upright and, perhaps imitating the
Varaku, making and using simple stone tools, marking
their entry into the palaeolithic era. The advent of tool
use enabled proto-Tezcat to resist the Varaku with
greater success but they were still at a disadvantage
and had no choice but to disperse across the
continent. At this stage, the Varaku had begun to use
fire for heat, cooking and as a weapon. Tezcat would
not start using fire until -150000.
Modern Tezcat emerged around -200000; by -10000,
they had begun using shells, teeth and bone as
jewellery. Sometime during this period, Tezcat
developed syntactic language, dramatically improving
their communication ability. Early artistic expression
using bone and stone sculptures developed, implying
the development of spirituality.
Tezcat continued to compete with Varaku. The more
advanced pseudo-reptiles had already developed
agriculture and the domestication of animals, while
Tezcat were still primarily nomadic hunter-gathers;
Varaku continued to spread across the continent,
pushing the Tezcat before them. Conflicts between
the two species continued, increasing in frequency
and severity, but Tezcat nomads remained at a
technological disadvantage to the Varaku.
By -8000, the surplus of food brought about by
agriculture saw the development of the first Varaku
cities. The Varuku became a TL1 society with the
development of bronze, copper and tin working around
-6200. During this period, the Varaku began enslaving
Tezcat, forcing them to work in the fields and undertake
menial tasks. Most Tezcat were still TL0 stone workers
at this stage but those enslaved were exposed to the
technology of the more advanced Varaku.

