CRADLES OF CIVILISATION
The development of cities saw further advancements
for the Varaku and, inadvertently, for their Tezcat
slaves. Central governments, complex economic and
social structures, record keeping and distinct cultures
and religions developed independently and through
cooperation. These advancements were followed by
the invention of the wheel, mathematics, sailing boats
and the potter wheel, which all led to the development
of monumental buildings. By -2200, writing had been
invented by at least three different Varaku cultures –
Drupbla (-5400), Froppab (-4500) and Noorop (-2200).
Varaku continued to build their cities near waterways,
despite being able to survive and reproduce away
from them via breeding pools, as they facilitated
transport via boats and rafts. The development of
road construction began to connect settlements
beyond rivers, promoting the projection of military
power and furthering the sharing of goods, ideas and
inventions. Trade rapidly became a power source as
cities located near valuable resources or had control
of important trade routes rose to dominance.
The growth of cities soon led to the establishment
of states and empires. In Drupbla, the unification
of several independent city-states saw the largest
known empire of the period. Conversely, the
independent city-states of Froppab formed a loose
hegemony with control shifting from one city to
another as they vied for supremacy.

Over the following millennium, Varaku civilisations
developed and expanded over Aum-rhar. Tezcat
continued to be enslaved, forcing those who avoided
enslavement into less hospitable environments. Free
Tezcat had yet to develop agriculture but had acquired
animal husbandry. A few groups had learned the skills
of bronze working. Some groups could flee on rafts and
risked hazardous ocean voyages, migrating from island
to landmass as they sought a home free of the Varaku.
Enslaved Tezcat, exposed to new ideas, developed
a much better understanding of current technology
but their quality of life was considerably inferior to
free Tezcat. During this period, the concepts that
would form the Shaper religion began to spread
amongst Tezcat slaves.

THE RISE OF RELIGION
The rise of transformative philosophical and religious
ideas in many different areas began in -2000.
Several Varaku religions developed during this
period. Most focused on the pantheons of gods but
others encouraged new ways of thinking and living.
Almost universally, these new ideas of the Varaku
excluded Tezcat, with some teaching Tezcat were
little better than animals, further reinforcing their
position as slaves and chattel. In mimicry of their
captors, religion also began to flourish among Tezcat,
with different faiths forming and gaining footholds
in various communities. In many Tezcat faiths, the
belief in a saviour emerged who would lead Tezcat to
victory and freedom from the Varaku.

Tezcat History
211

