T

From -1800, the rise of a series of Varaku empires of
unprecedented size began. These great empires relied
on strong militaries, the annexation of territories, the
advancement of defended settlements into agricultural
centres and the labour of Tezcat slaves. The use of
well-trained armies, unifying religions and advanced
bureaucracies paved the way for emperors to rule
over vast areas whose subjects could attain numbers
upwards of tens of millions. Trade continued to expand,
connecting far-flung civilisations and furthering the
spread of ideas and technology.

Tezcat History

In -1500, the Brog Empire, the largest and most
powerful Varaku civilisation, was founded with the aid
of the discovery of iron working in the city of Brog.
In -1200, the empire began expanding into nearby
territories through conquest and alliances. In an
unprecedented move, the Brog Empire utilised Tezcat
slave soldiers in their armies, promising their freedom
after 30 years of service. While Tezcat soldiers would
be considered free at the end of their service, they were
still inferior to their former masters, forced into menial
jobs no one else wanted. This move, while bolstering
the Brog Empire’s armies, also provided Tezcat with
military knowledge and skills which would eventually be
used against their masters.

212

By -1050, the Brog Empire had encompassed the
entire modern continent of Hrrsh’ta’au, having either
absorbed or destroyed all opposing cultures. The
invention of the printing press in -1030 and ocean
faring sailing ships in -1020 ushered in TL2 for the
Varuku. With the invention of astronomical navigation
in -1015, the Brog Empire reached out across the
oceans to lands beyond the horizon. By -997, the
Brog Empire had conquered modern Mrran-gar and
Vreesh and settled many islands in the Ktishh-rhar
Ocean. By -950, the Brog Empire had contacted
the Napbuup and Vurangor Empires in the distant
southern Fa-hrai continent.
The expansion of the Brog Empire brought them into
contact with many previously uncontacted Tezcat
tribes, most of whom were still living at TL0 or 1.
Contact invariably meant conflict between the two
species, with the Tezcat at a woeful disadvantage.
Captured Tezcat were sold at the multitude of slave
markets across the Empire. Eventually, only in the
frozen deserts far north of Hrrsh’ta’au, where it was
too cold for Varaku, could Tezcat live a hard life of
relative peace if not spirit-breaking hardship.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

On Fa-hrai, Tezcat had fared little better. The
Napbuup Empire saw little use for Tezcat as slaves,
eradicating them as pests and vermin wherever they
were found. The Vurangor used Tezcat slaves only
for the most menial and degrading jobs, with no rights
or chance of improving their lot. As on Hrrsh’ta’au,
Tezcat on the southern continent had been pushed
back into the most inhospitable of environments, the
arid deserts and the frozen southern pole, to eke out
what little existence they could.
The spread of the Brog Empire was halted when
they met The Napbuup and Vurangor Empires. Both
were powerful polities and the Brog Empire would
be hard-pressed to conquer both, especially as
they were strong trading partners and allies, likely
to band together to oppose any conquest attempts.
Furthermore, Napbuup had invented gunpowder
and canons, a secret it jealously guarded, allowing
the empire to destroy ships and route armies from a
distance. Instead, the Brog Empire formed a trade
relationship with its southern neighbours and hoped to
obtain the secret of gunpowder through subterfuge.

THE POWDER KEG
The spread of the printing press helped the proliferation
of information at a rate never seen before. Reading
and writing saw a surge in uptake and were no longer
the province of the educated few. By -920, the printing
press could be found across civilised Aum-rhar, leading
to the development of an education system comprising
schools and universities. For the first time, an
opportunity arose for primary education to be awarded
to the young and advanced education for those who
were talented or interested. New inventions such as
the steam engine, calculus and the musket saw the
stirrings of the industrial revolution for the Varaku.
Unbeknownst to the Varaku, with the spread of the
printing press came the knowledge of a Tezcat faith –
a cult that had begun in Brog with only a few scattered
cells of followers. The religion preached a message of
nihilism imposed by an entity known as the Absolute,
the holiness of the Tezcat form and relegated the
Varaku to the role of demons. The cult grew and
gained followers among the downtrodden Tezcat
who sought validation of their existence. The Varaku
became aware of the faith and, alarmed by the cult’s
teachings, attempted to eradicate it by outlawing its
practice and executing followers.

R

