In -857, Vre’rhar was born to free Tezcat in Brog. She was
raised by her parents in the Shaper Cult, unknowingly
laying the foundations for her actions later in life.
The attempt to eradicate the Shaper Cult backfired
and instead, the Varaku only succeeded in galvanising
the Tezcat with a zealous obsession with their faith. In
-887, Vre’rhar, now a young, charismatic advocate of
the Shaper Cult, came to the fore in Brog city. She had
claimed she had a vision where the Absolute had made
itself known to her in the darkness of a yawning cenote
and it had charged her with freeing all Tezcat from
slavery. Vre’rhar preached the Shaper Doctrine and
incited Tezcat with religious fervour to free themselves
from the demons who had enslaved them. Vre’rhar
travelled secretly to several Brog cities, her following
growing exponentially as her message spread. Tezcat
slaves began to refuse to obey their masters, soldiers
abandoned and fled their posts, and freed Tezcat
demanded equality for themselves and their enslaved
brethren. Across the civilised Varaku world, revolts
sprung up as Vre’rhar’s impassioned words reached
the Tezcat ears. The uprisings were quickly and bloodily
quelled, they Vre’rhar’s teachings continued to spread.

THE SPARK

Word swiftly reached the Brog Emperor of the uprising
in Gluprobrob. Unrest had already begun among the
Tezcat slaves and freemen as news of Vre’rhar’s
execution arrived. Leaders among the Tezcat,
fashioning themselves after Vre’rhar, spoke out
publicly, incited further disorder and demanded their

Horrified at the bloodshed, the Brog emperor freed all
Tezcat in the empire in -881 on the proviso they leave
Varaku cities in peace and start their own settlements
elsewhere. The decree led to a mass exodus of Tezcat
from Brog cities across the empire, leaving it struggling
as it was bereft of its primary labour force.
Tens of millions of Tezcat found themselves suddenly
free of their overlords but most were unsure of what
to do with their freedom. Many Tezcat found their
new freedom difficult. Food was not always easy
to find and many turned to banditry to survive. The
leaders who preached freedom and revolution led
other groups of their people away from Brog cities
to build their own settlements with the skills and
knowledge they had gained during their indenture. A
few found deep cenotes and, inspired by Vre’rhar’s
vision, settled near them. In time, these cenotes would
become the sites of ritual sacrifice.
Seeing Vre’rhar as the prophesised saviour, the
priests proclaimed her a martyr. They fashioned
themselves after her and saw themselves as the
force to drive their people. The scattered Tezcat
settlements maintained contact with each other,
primarily through the growing number of Shaper
priests who were the cornerstones of the groups. The
priests led the Tezcat, acting as guides but no single
authority would lead them secularly. Each Tezcat
had a say in how their society would operate and
the majority would decide all secular decisions. The
seeds of Tezcat democracy had been laid.
The Brog Empire did not fare well. The loss of its
major labour force led to an economic downturn and
depression. Untold numbers of smaller settlements
were abandoned, no longer having the workforce
to maintain them. Desperate Varaku travelled to
the larger cities hoping to find a better life and
found themselves performing the jobs Tezcat had
performed, leaving them embittered and angry. If
not for their technology and the industrial revolution
the Brog Empire would have collapsed but it had
significantly reduced in size and power.

Tezcat History

In -883, authorities finally captured Vre’rhar and
seven of her closest followers as they worshipped the
Absolute around a deep secluded cenote outside the
walls of Gluprobrob – known Ah’Purou in the modern
day. After an obviously biased public trial at the cenote,
Vre’rhar and her disciples were convicted of spreading
a dangerous religion. They were sentenced to ‘meet
their maker’ and summarily thrown into the cenote.
The Tezcat who were forced to watch the trial and
execution, already infuriated by the mistreatment
afforded Vre’rhar, turned on their masters in a bloody
riot which spread throughout the streets of Gluprobrob.
Varaku blood ran through the streets as they were
slaughtered by the thousands at the hands of slaves
and free Tezcat. The sheer number of rioters made
it impossible for the authorities to contain them.
After eight days, the surviving Varaku governor of
Gluprobrob decreed all Tezcat to be free from their
bondage and could leave the city in peace.

cry for freedom where heard. Tezcat fury could not be
contained and bloody clashes erupted on the streets
as Tezcat turned on Varaku with righteous anger.
The emperor ordered his armies to quell the uprising
but the Tezcat slave soldiers turned on their Varaku
officers, killing them and falling on the city to exact
revenge on the Varaku within.

213

