T

SIMMERING TENSIONS

The news of the Brog Empire’s plight eventually reached
the continent of Fa-hrai in -880. It had little effect on
the Napbuup Empire, although they took advantage
of Brog’s shrinking borders and sent aid to outlying
settlements only to lay claim to them shortly after.
The Shaper Cult had not yet developed a firm grip
on the Vurangor Empire’s Tezcat population. Still, as
stories of Vre-rhar reached them in -879, incidents
of slave disobedience began to increase sharply.
Disobedience soon led to open rebellion and armed
conflicts between Tezcat and Varaku. Wary of what
had occurred in the Brog Empire, the Vurangor Empire
outlawed the Shaper religion and began removing the
teeth and claws of rebellious Tezcat. The move served
to cow some slaves but encouraged others to flee
their masters. Some resorted to banditry, becoming
a growing cancer in the body of the empire. Others
attempted to find passage to the Brog Empire where
they could be free. Of those who remained, they found
their conditions becoming worse and worse. The empire
produced propaganda that reviled the Tezcat, blaming
them for the misfortunes of the empire, citing the events
in the northern continent as evidence. In -878, Varaku
slave owners were encouraged to have their slaves’
teeth and claws removed to reduce their threat.

Tezcat History

More slaves sought to escape. Those who were caught
were publicly executed as an example to others. In
-877, the Vurangor Empire began a two-pronged
program aimed at vilifying Tezcat and using patriotic
tautology to encourage Varaku to uptake the work
once undertaken by Tezcat. The program proved to
be an enormous success and in -875, the Vurangor
Empire began collecting Tezcat and imprisoning them
in barbaric slave camps where they were mistreated,
experimented upon and killed.

214

During this time, the structure of the Shaper
religion began to form among the freed Tezcat of
the Brog Empire. The Shaper priests set down the
doctrine of the religion based on the speeches and
teachings of Vre’rhar, although there were many
contradictions. The priests introduced ritual sacrifice
as a punishment for criminals. The settlements
surrounding cenotes drew Tezcat from all around who
wanted to be closer to a place of sacrifice, helping
the towns settled near them to grow into cities.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Peace reigned for the next half-century. By -820,
the Brog Empire, while much reduced in size, had
begun to recover. Trade and technology exchange
with the Vurangor and Napbuup Empires aided in its
stabilisation. The Brog Empire started to look towards
expansion again, although it was not yet powerful
enough to reclaim the lands taken from it by the
Napbuup. Instead, they began to look at the territories
claimed by the Tezcat as their own. Armies pushed
outwards towards the north, where many Tezcat fled,
but they failed to find significant communities. The ones
they did find were isolated, small and easily conquered.
Slowly, the Brog Empire’s borders expanded again.
The Napbuup colonies on the northern continent had
spread and grown as immigrants from the southern
continent arrived, looking for new opportunities.
Inevitably, as populations grew and spread, they once
again encountered large Tezcat communities and
conflict ensued. The Tezcat, with spears and swords,
were initially disadvantaged by Napbuup muskets and
cannons and suffered significant losses. The Varaku
did not realise how well the larger Tezcat communities
were connected and their assaults were soon met by
reprisals from neighbouring communities using guerrilla
tactics. The Tezcat guerrillas fended off the Napbuup
advances, reclaiming what the Napbuup had only
recently won. Unwilling to concede to the Tezcat, the
Napbuup colonies called for an alliance with the Brog
Empire and assistance from the Napbuup Empire. In
-815, the two great empires began their assault on the
Tezcat. The Wars of Extermination had begun.

THE WARS OF EXTERMINATION

The Wars of Extermination were fought for over two
centuries, starting as minor skirmishes but rapidly
growing into significant battles. Tezcat used captured
Varaku muskets and cannons against their creators
in frontal assaults while Tezcat guerrillas waged
a war of attrition from the flanks and rear. At first,
it appeared the Tezcat were losing ground, falling
before the more advanced technology of the Varaku,
but the Tezcat doubled back on their enemies and
struck from behind.
Enflamed into a religious frenzy by their Shaper priests,
what the Varaku saw as a war to gain territory, the
Tezcat saw as a holy jihad of eradication. Ground was
gained and lost but, despite their initial technological
disadvantage, Tezcat pushed the back lines of combat.
They invaded Varaku towns and cities and razed them
to the ground. No Varaku was spared from Tezcat fury.

R

