In -740, the Tezcat had successfully destroyed the
Brog Empire and Napbuup colonies on Hrrsh’ta’au.
The only Varaku left alive on the continent were in
hiding. Others had successfully fled over oceans to
seek safety on other continents and islands.
The Brog Empire was no more and the Napbuup
Empire had retreated to their territories in the southern
continent to regroup. The decades that followed
were a period of uneasy peace, allowing the Tezcat
to rebuild. New settlements were founded. In -735,
a large group of Tezcat settled on the ruins of Brog,
claiming it as their new capital and naming it and
their nation A’Pur. Similar actions were taking place
elsewhere on the continent, seeing the rise of the first
Tezcat nations. With the new nations’ growth, Tezcat
could claim some of the Varaku technology left behind,
raising them to TL3 and allowing them to better defend
themselves against further Varaku attacks.
During this time, a gathering of Shaper priests took
place to codify the Shaper religion. Texts were
examined and compared, and the priests gathered a
collection of scriptures to form the Shaper Doctrine. A
council of Shaper high priests was created to act as
the faith’s governing body. The fundamental beliefs
of the Shaper religion were established, including the
sanctity of the Tezcat form, their divine creation and the
demonising of the Varaku. Not all Shaper priests were
happy with the outcome of the gathering and some left
to form their own denominations.

The Varaku on Fa-hrai did not remain idle as
the Tezcat established themselves. Technology
continued to improve, slowly making its way to TL4.
New inventions were primarily applied to military use.
With advancements in metal technology, canons had
become more reliable. Steam power was applied
to create steam engines and early steam-powered
tanks were developed while steam-powered ships
patrolled the coastlines. Hot air balloons introduced
the concept of airborne warfare.

The Varaku had not yet been driven extinct, as there
were still members of the species elsewhere on Aumrhar. However, as each settlement was discovered,
it was systematically destroyed and the inhabitants
were killed. In less than another 200 years, the
Varaku species would become essentially extinct,
leaving a legacy of extreme xenophobia, which
Tezcat would take to the stars.

Tezcat History

The Shaper Church Council were not content with
the knowledge of Varaku existing elsewhere. They
called to the leaders of the new Tezcat nations to
wage a holy war to eradicate the evil Varaku from
the face of Aum-rhar. Many Tezcat men, women and
even children took up the call to arms, their faith
enflamed with religiously inspired hatred for the
Varaku. By -732, massive Tezcat armies had formed
and set sail for the continent of Fa-hrai.

Yet despite their technological superiority, the Varaku
were no match for the Tezcat, who believed they
had their god on their side. Losses on both sides
were vast as Fa-hrai was engulfed in the flames of
war. The Tezcat fought a war of attrition, taking no
prisoners and razing Varaku cities. Each Varaku loss
left them less capable of recovery. Over the next
half-decade, the Tezcat swept across the face of
Fa-hrai and destroyed first the Napbuup Empire and
then the Vurangor Empire. By -650, the vast majority
of Varaku on Fa-hrai had been eliminated, leaving
only small pockets of survivors to be hunted down
and killed by Tezcat exterminators.

215

