T

THE DARK AGES

The War of Extermination did not come without a
price for the Tezcat. The demands the war required in
sheer manpower alone was crippling but the loss of
Varaku knowledge of higher technology left the Tezcat
victors unable to maintain it. As the war advanced on
Fa-hrai, civilisation back on the Hrrsh’ta’au continent
began to collapse. Knowledge and technology were
slowly forgotten. The central authority began to break
down, further accelerating the decline as nations
fragmented into many small polities. Technology
finally stabilised at TL1 and most Tezcat were reduced
to subsistence living. The collapse followed the Tezcat
across the ocean to the southern continent, driving
the civilised world into a dark age.
Over this period, small polities continued to rise and
fall. Warlords held territories through the strength of
arms, warring against each other to increase their
power. In A’Pur, the Shaper Church Council struggled
to maintain the vestiges of civilisation of the fragmented
Tezcat population, using their faith as a control rod. Yet,
even this was hampered by the fragmentation of their
own religion into sects of different faiths.
Gradually, the more powerful polities were able to gain
a foothold. The Shaper Church of A’Pur regained its
religious dominance. Sects with differing views were
absorbed into the greater church or eradicated through
holy wars and inquisitions. Agriculture, a science Tezcat
had long ignored, increased the ability to maintain
herds of food animals, leading to stable population
growth. The increase in population and available food
led to advances in technology. By -300, the Tezcat in
Fa-hrai experienced a second industrial revolution.

Tezcat History

THE AGE OF EXPLORATION

216

Over the next 200 years, stable nation-states emerged
on both the Hrrsh’ta’au and Fa-hrai continents and
TL4 was reached. Expeditions were sent to explore
the rest of the world and colonies were settled on
newly discovered lands. New Tezcat civilisations were
discovered but none had achieved the technological
sophistication found on Hrrsh’ta’au or Fa-hrai and were
conquered or destroyed. Several powerful empires
arose in this era, including the A’Pur Empire, the
Chmee’kra Empire and the Khral’frep Empire.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A new colony, Hrag-rhar, was founded on the small
continent Fshh’ta-ou in the southern hemisphere by
religious dissidents from the Chmee’kra Empire. Tezcat
from the A’Pur and Khral’frep empires seeking new
opportunities also established colonies on the small
continent. Fshh’ta-ou was not uninhabited – Tezcat
living at TL1 already called the continent home. Initial
contact between the colonists and the natives was
friendly but relations soon broke down as the colonists
claimed an expanding amount of territory. The natives
could not compete with the more advanced colonists
and while they resisted the expansion, they could not
persevere. The natives were forced to adapt to the
colonists’ living or face extermination.
Technology continued to develop and advanced to
TL5. In -100, the Chmee’kra colonies which had
spread and grown sued for independence from
the empire. The request was denied. In response,
the colonies refused to pay taxes and declared
themselves the independent nation of Fshh’ta-ou.
Chmee’kra declared war on their upstart territories,
believing it could easily defeat them. After five years of
conflict, the Chmee’kra forces were expelled from the
shores of Fshh’ta-ou and the empire acknowledged
the independence of the Free States of Fshh’ta-ou.

RISE OF THE SUPERNATIONS

Several wars broke out on the continent of Hrrsh’ta’au
as nations fought for dominance. The nation of
A’Pur sought to bring the continent under a single
government united by faith in the Shaper religion. War
was waged across the continent for decades, ultimately
seeing two nations absorbed into A’Pur Empire but
leaving several others independent. The pressures
of the war saw further technological advancement,
bringing the A’Pur empire to the early stages of TL6.
Determined to see the continent united under it, A’Pur
declared war on its neighbour nations once again. The
remaining nations on Hrrsh’ta’au fought bravely for their
freedom but the invention of the atom bomb brought
A’Pur into military dominance. In -50, A’Pur used the
bomb to simultaneously destroy the capital cities of
their enemies and then stepped in to provide aid to the
shattered nations, founding the Hrrsh’ta’au Union.

R

