While Hrrsh’ta’au was engulfed in war, the various
colonies on Fshh’ta-ou worked towards their own
unification, led by the independent former Chmee’kra
colonies. The western colonies became unified into
the Western Fshh’ta-ou Union through negotiation and
diplomacy but the eastern colonies refused to join. As
diplomacy had proven unsuccessful, the only solution
the Western Fshh’ta-ou Union could see was to
forcibly absorb the eastern colonies and declare war.
After seven years, peace was announced but the war
united the wayward colonies into a federation called
the Eastern Fshh’ta-ou Hegemony.

the project, leading to the development of early TL7 in
year 12. Rrssht’ma successfully landed Tezcat on Ilynd
in year 14. Successful landings were achieved by the
other two nations over the next three years.

THE SPACE RACE

In year 30, Western and Eastern Fshh’ta-ou completed
the first lunar colony in a joint operation. The success of
the mission led to Hrrsh’ta’au announcing its intention
to send a crewed mission to T’chaia, the nearest
planetary neighbour of Aum-rhar. The task would
require technological advances they had yet to achieve
but Hrrsh’ta’au was convinced they could launch the
mission within 20 years. All three nations launched
robotic probes to T’chaia and other planets during this
period in their solar system.

By the year 0, the Tezcat had achieved a mature TL6
and Aum-rhar was dominated by several powerful
supernations – the Hrrsh’ta’au Union, the Western
Fshh’ta-ou Union and the Eastern Fshh’ta-ou
Hegemony. The nation of Rrssht’ma, located on a small
continent in the northern hemisphere, had slowly grown
in economic strength, profiting by supplying warring
nations with much-needed supplies. In the southern
hemisphere, the continent of Fa-hrai was splintered into
many small independent states, one of which having
economically prospered through the exploitation of vast
oil reserves discovered on their lands.

Also in the year 8, the Hrrsh’ta’au Union upped the
stakes with their announcement to send a crewed
mission to the moon Ilynd and safely return it to Aumrhar within a decade. Both Rrssht’ma and Western
Fshh’ta-ou made similar announcements shortly after. All
three nations began developing the systems required for

Technology rapidly advanced to TL8. All three major
nations were also involved in small wars prompted
by economic concerns. The threat of nuclear war
was raised several times but none were willing
to risk mutual annihilation. Many smaller nations
allied themselves with the superpowers to not be
left behind in space exploration and to prosper by
developing new technologies.
In year 54, a Hrrsh’ta’au crewed mission successfully
landed on T’chaia. All the nations of Aum-rhar marked
the event as a grand success. Over the next two
centuries, the first crewed mission to T’chaia mission
was followed by many others, culminating in permanent
settlements. Robotic probes to both asteroid belts
and four gas giants followed. Enormous wealth was
discovered in the closest belt – the second belt
was too far away to be economically viable – and
asteroid mining was commenced by several Tezcat
corporations. In 120, the colonies on T’chaia declared
independence from their parent nations, creating the
first Tezcat interplanetary nation. The colonisation of the
nearest asteroid belt progressed quickly, providing raw
material for Aum-rhar and T’chaia. The desire for faster
interplanetary travel led inexorably to the invention of
fusion power and, more importantly, gravitic technology.

Tezcat History

Isolated from the conflict occurring elsewhere on Aumrhar, Rrssht’ma embarked on achieving spaceflight as
a matter of national security, successfully launching
several ballistic rockets into near orbital space. Their
success brought an announcement from the Hrrsh’ta’au
Union, soon followed by the Western Fshh’ta-ou Union,
the intention to launch artificial satellites into orbit within
the year. By year 8, the Rrssht’ma sent the first Tezcat
into space in an orbital flight lasting almost two hours
before safely returning to the surface. The successful
mission urged Hrrsh’ta’au and Western Fshh’ta-ou to
push forward with their own attempts. Still, it would be
after several more successful launches by Rrssht’ma
that the other nations could complete a successful
crewed orbit of the planet.

Space exploration continued with the construction of
the first space station by the Rrssht’ma in the year
21, followed by a crewed orbital nuclear platform
by Hrrsh’ta’au in year 22. The success of the orbital
nuclear platforms saw a slight halt to further space
exploration as all three nations launched several other
orbital nuclear platforms as security measures.

217

