T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

DROYNE!
INTERSTELLAR EXPLORATION

In 255, scientists on T’chaia invented the reactionless
manoeuvre drive based on their understanding of
gravitics. The invention resulted from looking for more
fuel-efficient drive systems for the system’s growing
interplanetary community. The new drive was first
used by the T’chaia navy, making their ships the most
advanced in the system. It took only a few years before
the other Tezcat nations made the same discovery
through their own research or industrial sabotage.
Tezcat astronomy had advanced as quickly, if
not more so, as their other sciences. Orbital
observatories had already discovered thousands of
worlds orbiting other stars. The closest star to Aumrhar, an F5 V yellow-white main sequence sun, was
only two parsecs away. It was known to be orbited by
four gas giants and a rocky planet named Zamoran
in the habitable zone. Further observations revealed
the planet had an atmosphere which possessed
oxygen. A ship could reach the planet in about 24
years using the new gravity manoeuvre drives.

Tezcat History

Eastern and Western Fshh’ta-au announced their
intention to send a joint colony to Zamoran, forgoing
any exploratory robotic probes. Hrrsh’ta’au made the
same announcement only hours later. The nations
raced to be the first to launch their colonies, all three
using espionage and economic pressures to sabotage
each other’s efforts. The tension caused by the delays
soon devolved into a war between them.

218

On T’chaia, Tezcat scientists and corporations quietly
built their own vessel to send a colony to Zamoran. A
hollowed-out asteroid equipped with a manoeuvre drive
would be spun up to create artificial gravity and the
inside would be landscaped into a natural environment.
The nations of Aum’rhar were too involved in the
conflict between the superpowers to notice. In 260, the
T’chaia colony ship was launched with 3,000 colonists
on its epic 24-year flight to Zamoran.
The political tension on Aum’rhar boiled over
during the colony ship’s journey. The war between
the Eastern and Western Fshh’ta-ou alliance and
Hrrsh’ta’au grew, forcing the other nations to take
sides. Aum’rhar was plunged into another world war
as the threat of nuclear annihilation loomed. The
Ilynd colonies and T’chaia were soon drawn into the
conflict, which lasted 13 years. During this period,
small tactical nuclear devices were utilised but all-out
atomic war was successfully averted.

The colonists heading for Zamoran were aware of the
conflict engulfing their home system but they could do
little about it. Their 24-year journey was not easy. Minor
malfunctions in the workings of the colony ship led to
larger ones. Maintaining the internal habitat proved
more difficult than initially surmised and personal
conflicts threatened to tear the small community apart.
If it were not for the strong leadership of the handful of
Shaper priests who were part of the colonisation effort,
the ship might never have arrived at its destination.
Finally, in 284, the colony ship arrived in orbit around
Zamoran. The new world was everything they could
hope for – the atmosphere contained enough oxygen
to breathe and an established ecosphere was
apparent. As the colonists examined the planet from
orbit, they were surprised by a small ship arriving from
its surface. Unbeknownst to the Tezcat, Zamoran was
a pastoral colony populated by Droyne.
At first, the colonists happily supposed the scientists
back on Aum-rhar had developed a faster-than-light
drive and their fellows had already colonised the planet.
Communication was attempted but the language
coming from the alien ship was incomprehensible.
Through trial and error, the occupants of both vessels
agreed to dock in space and meet face-to-face.
As the airlock to the alien craft opened, it revealed
strange-winged creatures, unlike anything the Tezcat
had ever seen. When the aliens removed their helmets,
the Tezcat’s horror intensified as the faces they saw
reminded them of the Varaku – their racial enemy.
Instinct overcame rational thought and the Tezcat
attacked and killed the Droyne envoy. Storming the
Droyne ship, they killed everyone they found aboard,
leaving bloody, dismembered bodies in their wake. The
Droyne, surprised by the Tezcat’s sudden and ferocious
reaction, did not have time to send a distress signal.
The Tezcat colonists sent a message back home,
telling them of the alien monsters they had discovered
and to send help. It was clear to them what was
required. Like Aum-rhar before, Zamoran had to be
cleansed of its unholy infestation. The Tezcat provided
as much information in their message home as possible
before launching their shuttles to the planet’s surface to
establish a beachhead for their assault.

R

