More Tezcat were sent to the surface but were quickly
overcome and killed. When no more Tezcat could
be sent to the surface, Droyne Warriors attacked the
colony ship in their few small warships. The colony
ship had no weapons and was no match for the alien
ships it faced. Attempting to flee, the colony ship was
destroyed before leaving the system. The last action
made by the crew of the colony ship was to send a
message home of their failure. The conflict was short,
ending with the complete extermination of the Tezcat
colonists by Droyne Warriors.

REPRISAL
News of the colony ship’s fate took over seven years to
arrive at Aum-rhar. The announcement of the discovery
of the Droyne was enough to anger the Tezcat but
knowledge of the destruction of their colony ship
fanned a fury in them not felt since their ancestors
exterminated the Varaku. It was enough to unite the
bickering nations of the system. The construction of
warships capable of taking the battle to the Droyne
commenced, equipped with low berths capable of
carrying thousands of Tezcat troops. In 301, the first
assault fleet of 10 ships departed on the long voyage to
Zamora, with more to follow in the coming years.
The combat fleet arrived in the Zamoran system in
325, with their power down and trajectories designed
to make them look like comets entering from the
Oort cloud. A few ships halted in orbits around the
moons of the gas giants, forming a rear guard. The
rest progressed towards the planet. The Droyne on
Zamora, which they called Draykoysap, had few

early warning systems available and the Tezcat fleet
arrived in orbit unobserved. The troop craft landed
far from the widely spaced Droyne city centres and
established a foothold. From there, the Tezcat began
a guerrilla war against the Droyne.
The first Tezcat assault was eventually repelled by
Droyne Warriors forcing them back to their beachhead.
A few Tezcat were captured to be questioned but the
Droyne could not translate their language. Even their
telepathy was unable to crack the Tezcat tongue.
Having fought back the current attack, the Droyne
Leaders mistakenly assumed the Tezcat were merely
raiders and believed no more attacks would come.
Far more substantial fleets arrived, sometimes
decades apart. Caught by surprise, the Droyne
inadvertently allowed the Tezcat a foothold in the
system, establishing a supply line. The war was
prolonged by the snail’s pace of Tezcat slower-thanlight reinforcement and the local Droyne preference for
a strategic defence over a vigorous counterattack. The
Tezcat invasion was followed by a lengthy struggle to
occupy and subdue the planet, hampered by limited
experience in psionic shielding and having no psionics
of their own. As a result, the Tezcat took decades to
root out the last hidden Droyne enclaves and complete
their destruction of the planet’s Droyne population.
Ultimately, in 475, after 150 years of war, the Tezcat
were triumphant. The long, bitter conflict confirmed
Tezcat xenophobia and added an additional prejudice
against psionics that lingers today.

Tezcat History
219

