T

COMMUNITY AND EMPIRE

During their campaign to conquer Zamoran, the
Tezcat swiftly learned the Droyne possessed a
greater technological understanding than they
did, especially in faster-than-light propulsion. The
Tezcat successfully captured some Droyne starships
during the war but could not dedicate much effort to
understanding how they worked – they were far more
interested in eradicating the Droyne. After the war,
the Tezcat had the time and resources to thoroughly
examine their captured vessels. Tezcat scientists
were hampered by the way Droyne constructed their
spacecraft. Each ship was different, individually built
and apparently by hand. No two were alike, even in
the design of their jump drives.
After 11 years, Tezcat scientists had succeeded in
deciphering the workings of the Droyne ships and
were ready to build their own vessel. Construction
and testing of various configurations took another
nine years, but in 500, a Tezcat starship successfully
jumped from Zamoran to Aum-rhar, a journey of
two parsecs taking only a week when in the past it
had taken more than two decades. Tezcat scientists
learned more than just the secrets of the jump drive
from captured Droyne technology, and the new
knowledge raised the Tech Level of Aum-rhar to 11.

Tezcat History

The long war with the Droyne had created a period of
unprecedented cooperation among the nations of Aumrhar. The world’s governments agreed the knowledge
of the jump drive was far too important to be kept in the
hands of a single nation. The knowledge was shared
with all the nations in the Aum-rhar system but only the
superpowers had the resources to benefit from it. As
the more powerful nations concentrated on exploring
and colonising space, the smaller nations returned to
petty bickering and conflicts, occasionally drawing in
the more powerful nations to intervene.

220

Equipped with copies of the Droyne jump drive, the
Tezcat expanded into the stars. Their progress was
slow, hampered by the sparsity of stars of the Rift, but
between 500 and 700, they spread through Reft, laid
claim to new systems and conquered others. Tezcat

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

merchant cruisers and missionary scouts equipped
for multiple successive jumps even penetrated Trojan
Reach, Vanguard, Riftspan Reaches and the Beyond
sectors, occasionally being mistaken for Aslan ihatei.
When the Tezcat arrived at Gordon (Reft 2609), they
discovered the planet was already colonised by humans
of Imperial descent, although it was never part of the
Third Imperium. The planet only had a small population
of 12,000, so the Tezcat invaded but the humans put
up a surprising resistance, managing to fend off the
Tezcat’s superior numbers several times. Gordon was
finally conquered in 613, adding a new world to the
growing Tezcat empire. In a show of respect for the
brave resistance presented by the human inhabitants,
the Tezcat retained the planet’s name.
Undrelyn (Reft 1812) was a trading post established by
a disgraced Aslan minor clan seeking its fortune in the
Rift. The Tezcat made several attempts at conquering
it before succeeding in 693; however, many Aslan
avoided capture and continued to resist the invaders
through guerrilla warfare. The control of Undrelyn would
change several times over the coming two centuries.
By 700, Tezcat had control of five planets. They
encountered most of the Major Races, fought
skirmishes with Aslan minor clans and human colonies,
and carved out a small pocket empire. At the same
time, the Third Imperium was distracted by the Second
Frontier War and Civil War.
While Tezcat were not pleased to find themselves
hemmed in by more powerful alien powers, they were
nevertheless relieved to learn not all alien species
were psionic monsters like the now-legendary
Droyne. However, reports of the Zhodani (carried to
them by Aslan traders) unnerved them. The Tezcat’s
Imperial and Aslan neighbours have found the
xenophobic species a sometimes-useful buffer and a
good source of mercenaries.
The sporadic conflict between Tezcat and the other
client states and pocket empires of the Great Rift
would continue for several centuries but there would
be no significant changes in borders. Regarding their
larger and more powerful neighbours, the Tezcat have
convinced them they are too prickly a pear to swallow.

R

