TEZCAT TRAVELLERS
Tezcat Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers, as detailed in the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

TEZCAT

Tezcat Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: DEX +1, END -1.

TEZCAT TRAITS

Tezcat Travellers all possess the following traits:
Chameleon: Tezcat skin can mimic the colours
of their surroundings, providing a natural form of
camouflage and allowing them to blend in with their
environment. This ability is instinctive and operates
automatically while the Tezcat is conscious. Tezcat
gain DM+2 to all Stealth checks. As Tezcat also use
their ability to shift colour as an unconscious form
of body language, they find lying to each other very
difficult. Tezcat attempting to lie to another Tezcat
receive DM-2 to their Deception check.
Fast Metabolism: Tezcat have a heightened
metabolism and very fast reactions. They gain DM+1
to all Initiative rolls.
Heightened Senses: Tezcat eyes are adapted to low
lighting but sensitive to bright light. They gain DM+1
to all checks requiring sight in low-light, although not
in total darkness. They receive DM-1 to all checks
requiring sight when in light equivalent to a Terran
sunny day unless they are wearing eye protection.
Tezcat also have more sensitive smell, hearing and
taste to humans, granting them DM+1 to any Recon or
Survival checks which use one of those senses.
Manual Dexterity: Tezcat have very fine motor
control in their hands and fingers, enabling them to
perform the most delicate operations without artificial
aid. All Tezcat gain DM+2 to any check which
requires the use of fine manipulation.
Natural Weapons: All Tezcat have very sharp teeth
and claws, which make for nasty close combat
weapons. Their claws do 1D+1 damage while their
bite does 1D+2 damage. Furthermore, Tezcat possess

224

venom glands in their mouth and can deliver the venom
through a bite. If the Tezcat’s bite penetrates armour,
the victim must succeed at an Average (8+) END check
or take an additional D3 damage with intervals of 1D
minutes. Tezcat are immune to their own venom if
ingested but not if they suffer a bite.

TITLES
Tezcat do not use noble titles. Their SOC characteristic
represents the respect their position in society affords
as well as an indication of their relative wealth.

BACKGROUND SKILLS

Tezcat Travellers gain 3+ EDU DM in background skills.
They may choose the background skills available in the
Traveller Core Rulebook, page 9. Tezcat must choose
the Gun Combat 0, Melee 0 and Stealth 0 background
skills first and can use the remaining number of
background skills to choose the other available options.

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

Tezcat Travellers may use the Pre-Career Education
options from the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 16,
choosing university or military academy.

THE DRAFT
Most Tezcat Travellers enter the draft as soon as
they become adults, as once they leave public
service they are eligible to vote and hence have an
impact on society.

CAREERS
Tezcat can enter any career in the Traveller Core
Rulebook except for Noble, as their democratic society
does not acknowledge any group of people as being
better or more important than another.
Tezcat who wish to join the armed forces may
choose an Army, Marine or Navy career, or choose
the Soulhunter career detailed in this chapter. Those
interested in religious study may choose to enter the
Shaper priest career, also detailed in this chapter.

