Careers

Career
Shaper priest

Assignment

Qualification
INT 6+

Academic
Ecclesiastic
Partisan

Survival

Advancement

EDU 4+
INT 4+
END 6+

EDU 8+
SOC 7+
INT 6+

INT 5+
END 6+
END 5+

EDU 7+
EDU 6+
EDU 7+

END 6+

Soulhunter
Flight
Commando
Support

AGEING

Tezcat ageing is the same as standard,
commencing ageing rolls at the age of 34 (at the
end of their fourth term).

TEZCAT LIFE EVENTS
The life events of Tezcat are similar to those of
humans. Use the Life Events table in the Traveller Core
Rulebook, page 46.

MUSTERING OUT
Tezcat Travellers use the mustering out system as
detailed in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

ROLEPLAYING TEZCAT

Tezcat are well known for their faith. Like their
xenophobia, individuals will differ in how they feel towards
their religion – some have a very relaxed belief while
others are zealous in their faith. Many Tezcat abide by the
laws of their religion easily as they go about their lives but
there are others who chafe against them as impositions
and roadblocks for their ambitions. Most dangerous are
the Tezcat who are zealots and obnoxiously insist that
others not of their faith follow Shaper doctrine. Rare is the
Tezcat who has completely turned their back on religion,
even if their belief extends to only empty lip service.

Among themselves, Tezcat are very affectionate and
are not afraid of, or embarrassed by, public displays
of affection. Tezcat do not show affection to other
sophonts and tend to keep them at arm’s length,
sometimes at very long arm’s length. The very idea
of being affectionate to another species is abhorrent
to most Tezcat. Of course, there are exceptions for
sophonts who Tezcat believe have been born in the
wrong body and they will do their utmost to convince
them to be Incarnated into their true selves.
Tezcat release stress and tension through spontaneous
play. One moment they will be performing maintenance
on a jump drive, the next they will suddenly break into
a game of chase or pounce on invisible prey and tear
around the area in a burst of frenzied activity. Tezcat do
not behave in this manner in dangerous situations or
while in combat but once a threat has passed they will
drop everything for a game.
Tezcat do not show their teeth when they smile as it is
seen as a threat and indication of imminent attack. They
find it confusing when other species show their teeth in a
smile and often confuse it with a threatening gesture until
they have learned better. Even Tezcat who have spent
a lot of time with other sophonts and know a toothy grin
is not a threat automatically become defensive when
smiled at and have to force themselves to relax.

Tezcat Travellers

The two things which identify Tezcat are their xenophobia
and faith. While not all Tezcat exhibit these characteristics
at the same intensity, they are always present to some
degree. Even the most widely travelled Tezcat will feel
at least somewhat ill at ease around sophonts which
look very different to them and more comfortable around
sophonts which hold truer to the Tezcat form. Tezcat who
have a lot of interaction with other sophonts tend to be
not as xenophobic as those who have never seen a Hiver
or K’Kree but there are exceptions.

It is very common to hear Tezcat refer to their deity in
everyday conversation and asking for blessings for
upcoming actions and endeavours. They frequently
add ‘if Kn-krutak wills it’ to statements of uncertainty
or hope, adding remarks such as ‘Kn-krutak is all’
and ‘all things come to Kn-krutak’ as signs of virtue,
even asking Kn-krutak to inflict disease, bad luck and
misfortunes on those who have wronged him.

225

