ENTRAL SUPPLY

C CATALOGUE: TEZCAT
Tezcat produce a large quantity of goods, primarily
for their own use, but they do manufacture goods to
be traded with other species. Items like those found
in the Central Supply Catalogue can all be found in
Tezcat equivalents. Many Tezcat items are intricately
decorated with delicate patterns and images, making
them truly beautiful to look at. The prices of most Tezcat
items can be from 10% to 100% more expensive than
counterparts manufactured by other species because
of the time and effort it takes create them.

Thraktoshnar

Most clothing and armour made for Humaniti can fit
Tezcat or require only minor alterations and will cost
no more. Tezcat can also use all tools and equipment
made for Humaniti with no penalties.

WEAPONS

During their history, Tezcat have invented and used a
bewildering number of weapons, starting from simple
stone axes, arrow heads and spears, all the way up to
modern slug and energy projectors. They do harbour
a particular affection for more primitive weapons, the
use of some still being taught in martial art schools
across the Solar Hegemony.

Thuugra

Tezcat weapons are very often beautifully decorated
with gorgeous designs and patterns. Blessings are
also frequently found written in intricate script on their
weapons, quoting battle verses from Shaper Doctrine.
Thraktoshnar: Originally made from the thick
thighbone of an extinct Aum-rhar herbivore called
a thraktosh, the thraktoshnar was the very first
weapon used by proto-Tezcat. The bone was held
at the knee and swung so the large ball joint at the
end of the bone acted like the head of a hammer or
mace. Modern thraktoshnar are artificial, made from
hardwood or even metal. Bone thraktoshnar are
valuable heirlooms in many Iraahr, costing thousands
of Credits and having been handed down for
generations to become a source of great pride.

Tzasai

Thuugra: A heavy fighting spear not suitable for throwing,
thuugra were frequently used by Tezcat warriors in the
past but are now only used in various martial art styles.

231

