IGH

H GUARD OF THE TEZCAT
Tezcat starships tend to be fast and deadly, with
even civilian craft well-armed to deal with any alien
monsters they might encounter in a hostile universe.
Tezcat designs are heavily based on Droyne vessels
– almost organic looking with natural curves and
few sharp angles – but are better armed. Unlike
their Droyne counterparts, Tezcat ships are not all
unique nor are they constructed from individual plans.
Instead, they fall into classes of similar designs.
Tezcat ships have occasionally been mistaken for
Droyne, often with unfortunate consequences for
those committing such an error.
Ship interiors tend to possess the large communal areas
which are also found in Droyne ships but otherwise
resemble those of Tezcat houses, with colourful
translucent internal bulkheads of glassy amber, emerald,
smoky topaz-coloured plastic and recessed amenities.
Tezcat ships do not segregate officers from the rank
and file. No officer is afforded a single stateroom but
must double occupy with another Tezcat which may
be either another officer or a rating. Likewise, there
are no separate wardrooms or mess halls. Instead,
all the crew dine together equally.
All Tezcat spacecraft have a Shaper shrine on
board except for fighters, cutters, shuttles and other
small craft. Military spaceships are required to have
at least one Shaper priest assigned to it, whose
role combines the aspects of spiritual adviser and
political officer. The shrines are a place for crew to
meditate, seek guidance in prayer and hear sermons
conducted by the Shaper priest. While only one
priest is required per spaceship, often a small cadre
are assigned, especially on ships of high import.

As the Solar Hegemony is in such an isolated location
with few nearby stars, Tezcat have had to come up
with novel methods of spreading across the stars. A
common technique uses taskforces of one or more
squadrons centred on broodships. The taskforce
jumps into an empty hex and ships which require it
are refuelled and resupplied by the broodships. The
taskforce will jump again, leaving behind a broodship
and its escorts to act as a remote base. The taskforce,
once its mission is complete, will refuel, jump back
to the remote broodship, refuel it and then the entire
squadron jumps back home. On routes which see
frequent travel, Tezcat have built massive deep space
installations which act as waystations for the fleet.
Shaper Shrine: The presence of a Shaper shrine
on Tezcat military vessels is a requirement but only
optional on civilian ships, although many civilian
captains will put aside space in a common area for
a small shrine dedicated to the Absolute. Shipboard
Shaper shrines are built to resemble the internal
structure of larger temples. The walls, floor and ceiling
have the appearance of basalt blocks and the ceiling
is concealed by a starscape hologram. The walls
contain niches where the bones of those who have
died in service are respectfully kept. Six tons of space
dedicated to a Shaper shrine can accommodate 12
worshippers and shrines are designed to hold the
entire ship’s complement. Shaper shrines are normally
included as part of the common area of a ship.
Option

Worshippers TL

Shaper Shrine 12

7

Tons

Cost

6

MCr0.4

233

