INTRODUCTION

The Third Imperium is the primary empire of Charted
Space, spread out over a vast region of space,
consisting of all or part of 28 sectors, an empire of over
11,000 worlds inhabited by over 18 trillion sophonts of
various human and alien races.
Many Travellers are familiar with the Spinward
Marches and its neighbouring sectors, Deneb, the
Trojan Reach and Reft. These sectors are on the
frontier, located ‘behind the Claw’ of the Great Rift,
a massive region devoid of stars that separates the
domain from the heart of the Imperium. While the
Marches are mostly Imperial territory, they are far
from the Imperial core. Others may be familiar with
the Solomani Rim, the origin sector of Humaniti. A
little more than a century ago, the Imperium fought
the greatest war in its 1,000-year history against
the Solomani, conquering a quarter of its territory
including Terra itself. In modern times, the Imperium
remains in Solomani space as an occupying force.

Core sector, the seat of empire, is a far different place.
These are the hallowed grounds where the Third
Imperium was born from the ashes of the Long Night.
The drama of Imperial history has played out in this
storied sector and it has the scars to show for it. Core
has endured dynastic crises, betrayals, assassinations,
a civil war that nearly tore it apart and the agony of
defeat in war. It has also experienced rebirth, survival,
astrographic and economic growth, the ascendance
of dozens of Emperors, technological advancement
and the joy of victory over worthy foes. The crucible of
time has burned away the utopian dreams of its first

2

Emperor and yet his Imperium lives on. At its heart, the
Imperium was intended to be a sprawling free-trade
zone, its worlds free to chart their own fates within welldefended borders. This it has achieved. The Imperium
has proven to be a worthy successor to the previous
great empires.
The Imperium is an immense polity with a complex
history. Within these pages, Referees and Travellers
alike will find a detailed history of the Imperium and
descriptions of its military forces, the feudal nobility
who administer its worlds, the megacorporations that
dominate its economy and other aspects of Imperial
society. Also contained herein is a complete description
of Core sector, the heart of the Imperium and the
location of its grandiose capital. Core is a remarkably
diverse and turbulent place where Travellers will find
abundant opportunities for adventure.
Amid all of the history, world data and background
information, there are new playable alien and minor
human races, weapons and gear, vehicles and
starships. All of these can be used to add colour and
detail to any Traveller campaign.

Who Should Read This Book

The Third Imperium is written primarily with the Referee
in mind. All of the information contained herein can be
used by the Referee to run an adventure or campaign
anywhere in Imperial space but most especially Core
sector. Most of its world, starship and equipment
descriptions do not include spoilers that will ruin the

