enjoyment of a gaming session for Travellers. However,
it does contain some secrets, patron encounters and
other elements, which the Referee might prefer to keep
from the Travellers to enhance their enjoyment of the
game. Nevertheless, the book does have volumes of
information that Travellers might enjoy reading and
allowing them to obtain this knowledge before a gaming
session might enhance their experience and prevent the
Referee from having to narrate the various bits of history,
library data and other factoids. For Travellers who want
to read The Third Imperium, most of the sections leading
up to Core sector are safe territory. Avoid reading any
patron encounters or NPC descriptions so that the
Referee may use them. Most of the world descriptions in
the Core sector section are safe to read as well but there
are secrets and interesting facts sprinkled within those
pages that Referees might want to surprise Travellers
with. Consult the Referee before delving into the various
subsector and world descriptions.

Conventions

This book uses a number of conventions that require
explanation. The Third Imperium refers to the third great
human empire, which has now lasted for over 1,000
years. Its predecessors were the Ziru Sirka and the
Rule of Man, now nominally called the First and Second
Imperiums, respectively. In the Vilani language, Ziru
Sirka means Grand Empire of the Stars. This empire
lasted for many thousands of years, predating Terran
starflight by several millennia. The Rule of Man was its
successor state, established by Terran conquerors who
defeated the decaying Ziru Sirka during the Interstellar
Wars. The Terrans and their progeny eventually came
to call themselves Solomani, a name that invoked their
star of origin but also reflected that after a few centuries
they hailed from many worlds and were no longer just
Terrans. The Third Imperium is often simply called the
Imperium since it refers to the current human empire.

Galactic directions are sometimes referenced in this
book. There are four directions on maps of Charted
Space. Coreward is in the direction of the galactic
core or the top of the map. Rimward is in the direction
of the galactic rim or the bottom of the map. Spinward
indicates the direction in which the galaxy is spinning
or the left of the map. Finally, trailing indicates the
direction in which the spiral arm is extended or the
right of the map.
While there are hundreds of alien races, there are
only six that are considered to be Major Races. These
are Humaniti, Aslan, Vargr, K’kree, Hivers and Droyne.
Hundreds of Minor alien races, most of which have
been gifted jump technology by the Major Races over
the centuries, also travel the stars but none have large
interstellar empires that measure up to those of the
Major Races.
Each of the Major Races has its own dating system
but this book uses that of Humaniti, specifically the
Imperial Calendar. The Imperium measures time in
years, which consist of 365 days of 24 hours each.
The first day of the year is called Holiday and the
remainder of the year is divided into seven-day
weeks, whose days are called Wonday, Tuday,
Thirday, Forday, Fiday, Sixday and Senday. The
current year is 1105, the 1,105th year of the Third
Imperium. Historical records referring to events
that occurred before the Imperium was founded are
shown as negative numbers. For example, Cleon I,
the first Emperor of the Third Imperium, was born in
the year -57.

Introduction

In Traveller, Humaniti consists of a broad panoply of
subspecies. It is believed that an alien race known
as the Ancients came to Terra approximately 300,000
years ago, took samples of homo sapiens and spread
them throughout Charted Space. In some cases, these
humans were genetically engineered to survive on
alien worlds or to serve the Ancients in some capacity.
In others, they were left to evolve on their own, subtly
affected by the unique environments of their various
worlds. The entirety of the human species and its
myriad subspecies is called Humaniti. The Solomani,
Vilani and Zhodani are the three human subspecies
that developed jump drive technology independently,
earning them Major Race status. Other human
subspecies are Minor Races.

Charted Space refers to the interstellar region that is
inhabited by Humaniti and hundreds of alien races.
The entire region is, in fact, only a small portion of the
Sagittarian Arm of the Milky Way galaxy. Vast expanses
of uncharted and only recently explored space lie
beyond its borders. Charted Space is divided into
distinct regions and polities. The generally accepted
measurement of space is the parsec, approximately
3.26 light years in distance. Astrocartographers have
divided Charted Space into regions called sectors,
which are 40 parsecs long by 32 parsecs wide. Sectors
are subdivided into 16 subsectors, each of which
encompass an area 10 parsecs long by eight wide.
The entirety of Charted Space contains 128 sectors
and over 80,000 stars, many of which are orbited
by inhabited worlds. The Imperium later created
subdivides of its territories called domains, each of
which includes four sectors, but this was a political
division, not an astrographic one.

3

