I

MPERIAL SOCIETY AND CULTURE

The Third Imperium covers a broad expanse of space
that includes distinct regions, peoples and cultures.
However, there are certain norms and standards
consistent across Imperial space. The first of these is
language. While many human and alien races speak
their own native languages, Galanglic is the official
language of the Imperium. Galanglic is descended from
Terran English but has changed significantly in the
millennia since Terrans first took to the stars.
The governments of Imperial worlds are independent.
There is no uniform Imperial style of government
or guidelines for how to govern a world. However,
the Imperial bureaucracy is present on most of its
worlds, run by the nobility. Nobles serve as Imperial
administrators, collecting taxes, interfacing with other
Imperial agencies such as the navy and scouts, and
making sure that the worlds of the Imperium abide by
its laws. Each world also has its own legal system;
the laws of each world can be very different. Some
worlds have highly codified, stringent legal systems on
which it is quite easy for Travellers to run afoul of the
law. Others have few or no laws at all. The Imperium
does not impede upon the laws of its worlds unless
they conflict with Imperial law. Imperial law is mostly
vague, allowing the Emperor to alter it depending on
circumstances but some Imperial laws are immutable.
The Imperial Credit, or simply the Credit, is the
currency of the Imperium. There may be some
instances in which barter or local currencies exist on
various worlds but the currency of interstellar trade and
commerce is the Credit.
The Imperium is a diverse and cosmopolitan place. It
is home to two Major Races, dozens of Minor Races
and to many individuals from among the other Major
Races who have immigrated to the Imperium from
their own polities. Generally speaking, the Imperium
is a welcoming and accepting place for all of them.
There are xenophobic cultures that might take issue
with foreign humans or aliens on their worlds, usually
backwaters and low-population worlds that see little
interstellar traffic that are less accustomed to the
diverse nature of the Imperium surrounding them. Even
in the heart of the Imperium, pockets of such worlds

4

exist. Likewise, Travellers might witness isolated acts
of racism and intolerance here and there but overall the
varied array of human and alien races are accepted
as part of life in the Imperium. There is mutual respect
and tolerance between most sophonts who see little
difference between each other regardless of the
fact that many Minor Races look and behave quite
differently from the human majority.
Imperial culture is varied and its worlds can be quite
different from one another, even those only a few
parsecs apart. Religion, fashion, sport, entertainment
and other aspects of culture differ from world-to-world.
Imperial worlds do have some things in common: trade
and the presence of the Imperial military and nobility.
Each of these institutions imports ideas, styles of
dress and cultural norms that are often mimicked by
the societies of Imperial worlds, especially those more
open to interstellar culture. Imperial culture is also
defined by its contrasts with neighbouring human and
alien polities. For example, the Zhodani embrace the
use of psionics but they are anathema in the Imperium.
Likewise, the stark differences seen in Aslan, Vargr and
other alien cultures contrast with Imperial culture, more
sharply defining it.

Trade

Trade is the lifeblood of the Imperium. At its heart, the
Third Imperium is a federation of worlds unified by
free trade and open communication. The first Emperor
established the empire based on the notion that free
trade would enrich its citizens and bring civilisation to its
worlds. The history of the Imperium has proved him right.
The majority of trade revenue is earned by
megacorporate and sector-wide merchant lines that run
freight operations along the major trade routes. These
routes primarily serve worlds with high populations
and other factors that give them importance. Trade
goods are transported aboard megafreighters in the
multi-10,000-ton range. However, the trade routes only
serve 10 percent of Imperial worlds. The remaining 90
percent get their goods from subsector merchant lines,
interface lines and tramp traders.

