The tramp trader is the bottom rung of the food chain
but operating such a ship is a romanticised enterprise.
The captains of tramp traders are their own bosses,
plying interstellar space in Type-A free traders or
Type-A2 far traders, picking up small freight and mail
lots when possible, carrying and serving passengers,
and speculating on cargoes that may or may not be in
demand at the next port. It is a difficult life, made more
so by the constant need for an influx of Credits to pay
the starship mortgage. Most of them would not have it
any other way. Tramp traders do not have to leave the
trade routes to do well. In spite of the fact that the big
merchant lines gobble up most of the business, there
is work to be had by small traders. There are many
niche and underserved markets hidden away on the
worlds of the trade routes. Most tramp traders spend
time on the main routes and veer off them when profits
beckon elsewhere.
Secondary routes and stellar clusters are also served
by the tramp trader community but many of these
attract mid-sized lines, which appoint subsidised
merchant starships to serve them on an experimental
basis. The most popular spacecraft for such trade
missions is the 400-ton Type-R subsidised merchant,
affectionately called the ‘fat trader’ or ‘subby’ by people
in the business. If running a subsidised merchant
reveals that profits are there to be had, an interface or
subsector line will eventually invest in a secondary or
cluster route, turning its worlds into regular stops.

Trade is not always solely motivated by immediate
profits. In the early days of the Imperium, even when
the distance travelled between worlds was too great
for trade to be immediately profitable, technological
exchange proved to be beneficial for both parties.
Many of the early Imperial trade missions were run
at a loss, with the intention of seeding the routes to
distant worlds with outposts and colonies. By exporting
technology to distant worlds, early traders gave them
the means to start producing high-tech goods of their
own. Eventually, such societies made technological
advancements and learned to produce things that
the worlds at the heart of the Imperium could use.
As the populations and economies of the worlds in
between began to rise and Imperial borders expanded,
the distant worlds that the Imperium had invested in
became valued trading partners.
An ancillary benefit of trade missions was cultural
exchange. Visiting distant worlds enabled Imperial
traders to establish common ground with peoples and
cultures that had not been a part of interstellar society
for centuries. The day would come when they would
be asked to join the empire. The less foreign and alien
the Imperium seemed, the more likely these worlds
would be willing to become full-fledged members. Such
missions are still undertaken along the frontiers of the
Imperium, although there are far fewer unincorporated
worlds in Charted Space in modern times.

Imperial Society and Culture
5

