T

The spirit of free trade on the frontiers lives on with the
exploratory trade companies. Spinward Marches-based
corporations like Barracai Technum and McClellan
Factors operate armed Leviathan-class merchant
cruisers in the backwaters and beyond their borders.
These spacecraft are over 1,000 tons in size and
designed to travel into potentially hazardous regions in
order to establish contacts with new trading partners.
Merchant cruisers have relatively small cargo holds,
in which they carry wares from civilised space meant
to serve as enticements to join the trade community.
Frontier trade also attracts interest from the intelligence
community. Merchants operating on the fringe garner
the attention of various agencies that want information
about what is happening beyond Imperial borders.
Developmental trade missions and burgeoning new
routes are not limited to the frontiers. Old routes
closer to the heart of the Imperium frequently die
out and new ones take their place. It often depends
on which of the big industrial worlds are producing
the top products at a given time. When a middling
or struggling industrial world suddenly makes a
breakthrough, or just lucks into a market that becomes
hot, traffic shifts to accommodate the trend. There
are big profits to be made for merchants who read
the tea leaves correctly and beat everyone else to
new markets. The trends are always shifting and the
most successful traders are those who catch the wave
before their competitors see it coming.

Imperial Society and Culture

Technology

6

The Imperium benefits from the highest technology
in Charted Space. They are in rare company, having
achieved TL15. Only the K’kree of the Two Thousand
Worlds, Hive Federation and some polities of the
Vargr Extents have matched this level of achievement.
The Aslan Hierate, Zhodani Consulate and Solomani
Confederation are standardised on a slightly lower Tech
Level of 14. The single level of advantage is significant,
with TL15 granting the ability to manufacture jump-6
drives, significantly more output from fusion power
plants and many other innovations.
Imperial scientific agencies, the military and
corporations are pushing the envelope to the next
Tech Level. A few worlds have already achieved the
next technological milestone. The industrial world
of Vincennes in Deneb, the research station at
Pashus also in Deneb and the tech-focused colony at
Gannvair in Fornast have each risen to TL16. At this
level, independent artificial intelligence, antimatter

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

energy production, brain transplants, miniaturisation
of previous technologies and resultant improvements
in communications and weapons technologies
become available.
Imperial culture embraces the judicious use of artificial
intelligence to produce wondrous technologies and
manage massive populations in the tens of billions.
There are numerous safeguards in place to ensure
the safety of this technology but innovation is always
being pushed to the limit. At the Imperial Naval Base
on Celetron, there are experiments under way to
create the first fully autonomous starships. The Yelu system has taken it a step further by automating
an entire world. The Saregon system has foregone
traditional government and allowed an AI computer
to govern billions of sophonts. The fear of unbridled
technology persists but the pressure to remove
constraints is strong.
While there is always a race to reach new heights of
technology, the Imperium is a diverse society whose
primary cultural influences come from the Vilani and
Solomani. Dating back to the age of the Ziru Sirka,
the Vilani have preached caution in the development
and use of technology; meanwhile the Solomani
have always emphasised continuous innovation and
advancement. The two are at cross purposes but their
divergent philosophies have found ways to coexist.
Both Vland and Terra are at the Imperium’s maximum
Tech Level of 15. Despite the constant drumbeat of
progress, the Imperium does exercise caution in key
fields of research and development in an effort to keep
technological development under control and prevent
potentially dangerous technologies from proliferating
across Imperial borders.

Law

There are three types of law in Imperial space:
• Planetary law – Each world is empowered to
author its own laws that establish everything
from the enforcement of petty infractions to
high crimes like murder, kidnapping, extortion
and theft.
• Subsector law – The primary purpose of
subsector law is to ensure that star systems
do not exert undue oppression or cruelty upon
one another. To an extensive degree, star
systems are allowed to influence and control
each other but when it impedes economic
growth, threatens trade or opposes the
interests of the Imperium, subsector-level
authorities may intervene.

R

