•

Imperial law – Crimes such as treason, revolt,
tax evasion and undue violence between
worlds using weapons of mass destruction
invokes Imperial law, enforced by Imperial
military forces.

Few Imperial laws are codified, with most left
deliberately vague. The Imperium is an immense polity
with widespread and diverse populations. What works
in the spinward region of the empire might not apply to
trailing or for that matter between two worlds that are a
few parsecs apart.

Solomani and Vilani

The majority of Imperial citizens are human and come
from a variety of subspecies but the most prevalent are
the Vilani and Solomani. The Vilani, who came from
Vland, discovered jump drive technology thousands
of years before Terra and built the largest interstellar
empire in the history of Charted Space. Just as that
empire began to falter, the Terrans aggressively came
onto the scene and swept the Ziru Sirka away during
the Interstellar Wars. Having become an interstellar
people themselves, the descendants of the Terrans
became known as the Solomani, meaning ‘men of Sol’.

After thousands of years of coexistence, Vilani and
Solomani have found common ground. Social and
physical intermixing has created a hybrid in which
tenets of both cultures are present. The divisions
between them are as evident as they have always
been but they have learned to cooperate, leveraging
advantages of both cultures to make a better Imperium.
This is not to say that conflicts do not arise. Situations
inevitably come up in which Vilani and Solomani
values directly clash with one another. However, such
occurrences are increasingly rare.
It is difficult to say which culture holds greater sway in
modern times. The Vilani had thousands of years to
perfect the art of building and maintaining an empire,
while the Solomani had only a few brief centuries of
experience before they inherited all of Vilani space. The
Solomani had little inkling of what to do next after they
won the Interstellar Wars. Solomani culture was thin
gruel compared with the ancient and highly structured
Vilani civilisation. The Rule of Man raped and looted the
First Imperium but were ultimately made students of its
conservative, empire-building ways. To paraphrase the
ancient Terran poet, Horace, ‘Captive Vland captured
her rude conqueror’.
While the Vilani certainly knew a lot about empire
building, the Solomani knew how to give an empire
some teeth. Their embrace of technology and
innovation enabled Humaniti to reach heretofore
unseen levels of technological advancement and
the security that it provides. As Humaniti began to
encounter and conflict with the other Major Races,
it is doubtful it could have survived with the arbitrary
constraints placed upon technological development by
the Vilani.
Despite all of this, there remain several forbidden
realms of technology where the old Vilani caution
creeps in. Foremost among these is uncontrolled

Imperial Society and Culture

There is a significant grey area in Imperial law when
it comes to the rules of war. Simply put, the Imperium
allows belligerent forces to engage in war with one
another provided they do not break the immutable
Imperial laws, free trade is not impeded, and undue
cruelty or oppression is not inflicted on one side or
the other. Imperial law may also be invoked if a war
between nations or worlds escalates and threatens
to spread to a larger cluster of systems or an entire
subsector. Other than that, war is considered to be
a necessary outlet for aggression that should not
be suppressed. Doing so can create an even worse
situation in which a drawn-out cycle of terrorism,
sabotage, assassination, insurrection and subterfuge
create a long-term problem. While wars inevitably
result in an unfortunate loss of life and a great deal
of property damage, they can sometimes produce
solutions in far less time with fewer casualties and a
reduced negative effect on the local economy. The
Imperium is quick to point out that this allowance is
not an endorsement of war. Quite the opposite. The
nobility does what it can to create diplomatic channels
and mediation between opposed sides. Should a
conflict escalate to war, it is not above the Imperium
to pick sides. Assistance to one side or the other
may sometimes be granted when it is deemed in the
empire’s best interests.

The Vilani and Solomani have slight physical
differences despite having evolved on different worlds
for hundreds of thousands of years but culturally
they are quite different. Because of the challenges
posed by living on a world that was not their own, the
Vilani became a conservative people who favoured
cautious resource management and tradition over
unbridled innovation. Conversely, the Solomani were
more aggressive, uninhibited in their advancement of
science and technology. After the Solomani conquered
the Ziru Sirka and declared the Rule of Man, the
two human subspecies and their cultures became
irrevocably intertwined.

7

