T

artificial intelligence. The war machines that were left
on Vland by the Ancients, destructive automatons that
posed an existential threat to humans, left their indelible
mark on the culture. The Vilani were driven to reach
beyond their world but also chastened by a history in
which technology was a thing to be feared.

Psionics

The first widespread use of psionics was recorded
during the Long Night, when isolated worlds and pocket
empires validated the practice. Some worlds were even
led by psions or governments that employed them in
advisory roles.

Imperial Society and Culture

The practice of psionics was mostly viewed as an oddity
in the Third Imperium, despite their growing usage and
acceptance during the first centuries of Imperial history.
Psionic institutes and programmes at universities taught
psionically talented individuals how to use their abilities
to read minds, move matter and instantly teleport from
place-to-place. These programmes reached a peak in
popularity from about 650 to the mid-700s. However,
a series of psionic scandals rocked the Imperium
in the late 700s, resulting in the public turning upon
psionics and those who used them. The Psionics
Suppressions of the early 800s repressed the use of
psionics and revoked the charters of nearly all psionic
institutes. Psionics became illegal in Imperial space and
practitioners were forced underground.

8

In the modern era, psionics are still illegal but two
institutes remain in service, one on Wypoc in the
Spinward Marches and the other on Terra. These
institutes purportedly focus on the study of psionic
phenomena to ensure the safety of Imperial citizens
from external forces and foreign states that use them.

Cultural Zones

The Warrant for the Restoration of the Imperium
was published in Imperial year 0, claiming that all of
the territory held by the Ziru Sirka and Rule of Man
combined was the rightful domain of the Third Imperium.
Using the Warrant for Restoration as its justification,
the Imperium expanded its borders and consolidated its
interior during the Pacification Campaigns.
The Third Imperium managed to integrate most of the
worlds previously held by its predecessors. This was
not accomplished without making sacrifices; inevitably,
the Imperium encountered peoples and cultures
reluctant to join. Circumstances dictated the methods
by which they were coerced.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Domain of Antares proved to be difficult to conquer
during the Pacification Campaigns and the subsequent
Julian War gained the Imperium no additional ground.
Concessions had to be made to bring the region on
board. A collection of worlds known as the League of
Antares was established as a cultural region in order to
placate the most resistant forces in the domain.
Likewise, in the far-flung Corridor, Gushemege
and Dagudashaag sectors, the Lancian and Amec
Protectorate cultural regions were granted to preserve
distinct cultures that had developed during the nearly
two millennia of the Long Night. The Luriani Cultural
Association was similar. Of all the human Minor Races,
the amphibious Luriani proved to be the most difficult to
assimilate. The Imperium managed to bring them into
the fold over time and granting them their own cultural
region was a necessity.
Not all of the cultural regions were granted as
concessions. Some were established to reward loyal
service to the Imperium. The Vegan Autonomous
District was given as a boon to the alien Vegans,
whose aid to the Imperium was instrumental in its
victory during the Solomani Rim War. The Sylean
Worlds were established to honour the contributions
of the Syleans, whose cultural principles and personal
sacrifices were a crucial part of the foundation upon
which the Imperium was built and maintained.
Additional cultural regions have been proposed
for the Geonee, Suerrat, Darmine and Chanestin.
Outliers in the Imperial nobility have even proposed
the recruitment of polities such as the Darrian
Confederation and Sword Worlds under the auspices
of cultural region grants.
The problem with establishing too many cultural
regions is that it eventually begs the question
of why have an Imperium at all. The entirety of
Imperial space could be subdivided into dozens,
if not hundreds, of distinct cultural regions, each
with their own laws, religions and traditions. In
such a scenario, the Imperium would be reduced
to a loose confederation of worlds. While some
idealists dream of such a thing coming to pass, the
astrographic implications are not kind. The Imperium
is surrounded by the empires of Major Races and
two great human polities: the Zhodani Consulate and
Solomani Confederation. Were the Imperium to allow
itself to be split into myriad cultural regions, it could
become easy prey for its neighbours. The cultural
region controversy is one of the defining issues of
the modern age, one which Emperor Strephon and
the Moot struggle with on a daily basis.

R

