T

Interstellar Relations

The Imperium has a complex array of relationships with
the polities on and just beyond its borders. Treaties,
armistices and pacts have guaranteed peace with most
of its neighbours but there remains some enmity with
some of them.
The Zhodani and their Outworld Coalitions have gone
to war with the Imperium four times, the first of which
began in 589 and the most recent one ending in 1084.
In the interim between each war, relations with the
Zhodani have been frigid. The Zhodani believe the
Imperium is encroaching upon their borders and the
Imperium distrusts the Zhodani due to their use of
psionics. It is doubtful that the two sides will ever have
an amicable relationship.

Imperial Society and Culture

The Julian Protectorate has gone to war with the
Imperium twice, once in the Julian War, which began
in 175, and again over three centuries later in the
Hidden War. Since its founding, the Imperium has laid
claim to the sectors held by the Julian Protectorate
based on the principles established in the Warrant
for the Restoration of the Imperium. However, the
confederated states of the Protectorate have no
intention of joining, nor has the Imperium expressed
any desire to reignite the flames of the only major war it
has ever lost.

10

Perhaps the greatest threat to peace lies on the
border with the Solomani Confederation. The majority
of Solomani space was integrated into the Imperium
centuries ago but relations declined and Empress
Margaret I was forced to give the region its autonomy.
The Solomani eventually declared full independence,
calling their new state the Solomani Confederation.
After a 12-year war, the two sides signed an armistice
but not before the Imperium had driven a deep wedge
into Solomani space, capturing Terra in the process.
Even after over a century of peace, the Solomani are
smouldering for a rematch but the powerful Imperium
poses a daunting opponent.
The Imperium has a history of conflict with two of the
Major Races – the Aslan and Vargr – and no major
conflicts with the K’kree, Hivers or Droyne. Of the
Major Races, the Imperium shares a border with only
the Vargr Extents. There are comfortable buffer zones
with the rest, most of which contain collections of
independent polities.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Aslan are an expansionist race united by a
philosophy based on honour, which they call fteir in
their native language of Trokh. During the Long Night,
the Aslan and various human polities fought a series
of Border Wars, which ended in the year 380 with the
signing of the Peace of Ftahalr. Among its tenets, this
treaty provides for a 30-parsec-wide gap between
Imperial and Aslan space. While no major war has
been fought between the two species since the treaty
was signed, the two polities are now in close proximity
to one another in the Trojan Reach. The Aslan continue
to encroach into neutral territory and Imperial Navy
forces in the region are preparing for the worst should a
concerted invasion occur but the two remain peaceable
with one another… for now.
The Imperium has a much more complicated
relationship with the Vargr that dates back to the
era before the Long Night. The Vargr were a major
impediment to the coreward expansion of the Ziru
Sirka; in fact, constant raiding by Vargr corsairs was
a contributing factor to the fall of the First Imperium.
They continued to be a problem for the Rule of Man.
The Third Imperium has gone to war with various
Vargr polities during the Pacification Campaigns,
Julian War, Vargr Campaigns and all four Frontier
Wars. Despite a long history of conflict between the
two races, there are more Vargr Imperial citizens than
any other alien Major Race.
The Imperium maintains relationships with its
neighbours by exchanging embassies with them. The
Imperium has no embassies in the Zhodani Consulate,
Solomani Confederation nor the Julian Protectorate,
but every other interstellar state on the periphery of
the Imperium has at least one embassy. Ambassadors
are typically selected from the ranks of honour nobles
or the diplomatic corps, with a great deal of crossover
between the two.
The Vargr and Aslan present unique challenges for
the diplomatic corps. It would not be practical to send
ambassadors to all of the myriad Vargr states, so only
the most important ones are chosen. The Imperium
is careful to select ambassadors who are seen as
charismatic in the eyes of the Vargr. Ambassadors
are often recalled when a state falters or subsides
in importance, a common event in Vargr space.
Fortunately, the Vargr accept boons and slights much
better than most. The Vargr also have a greater innate
respect for alien cultures. Plurality and variety in the
Vargr Extents lends itself to easier acceptance of
foreign societies.

R

