The challenge posed by the easily offended Aslan is
quite the opposite. The Imperium sends a separate
ambassador to each of the 29 Tlaukhu clans, no matter
where they rank in the Hierate. Additional embassies
have been established in Aslan space on interface
worlds and regions of importance.
While the Imperium has no embassy in Zhodani space,
and nor do the Zhodani have one in the Imperium, both
meet on Quar, a neutral Imperial client state located in
the gap between the two polities, in the Cronor of the
Spinward Marches.
Most Solomani worlds refuse to allow the Imperium
an embassy on the grounds that they have
never recognised the existence of the Solomani
Confederation. The Imperium steadfastly refers to the
region as either the Solomani Autonomous Region or
the Solomani Sphere. However, the moderate Boötean
Federation often holds summit meetings between
the two sides on its capital at Hamilcar. Likewise, the
Imperium has invited members of the Solomani Party
and various factions from the Confederation to meet at
the Imperial Centre of Peace and Diplomacy on Terra.
Imperial embassies focus on evangelising their core
values: free trade, peaceable relations and the tenets
of Imperial law. Cultural exchanges and political
conferences are common occurrences. Embassies
are also used for clandestine communication and
espionage functions, although both sides either play
down or deny this to be true.

Internal Relations

The Imperium is currently at peace, but it is impossible
to keep 11,000 worlds happy all the time. Friction
occurs between sectors of the Imperium, subsectors

Internal conflicts are localised as best they can
be. Armed conflicts between blocs of worlds or
subsectors are forbidden; such things can easily get
out of hand. The Imperium has suffered one major
revolt, many minor revolts and one civil war over the
course of its history and it acts quickly and decisively
to ensure such things do not happen again.
Rival nobles have conflicts with one another from time to
time but must be careful not to let things escalate lest a
superior noble or even the Emperor becomes involved.
Noble patents and fiefs are not distributed equitably, nor
are worlds or lands granted under enfeoffment always
equivalent in value or prestige. It is not uncommon
for nobles to become envious of each other’s fiefs.
Conflicts are usually resolved through official channels,
but some degree of skulduggery sometimes happens.
Rival nobles are not permitted to declare war on one
another, but they can and sometimes do manipulate
the governments under their administrations into doing
so. Noble conflicts can become personal, sometimes
quite literally. The practice of duelling between individual
nobles is frowned upon, but nonetheless occurs from
time to time.
There are a few hot spots in the Imperium worthy of
mention. The Domain of Deneb has always been a
hotbed for conflict. The duchies of Deneb are highly
contentious with one another and the Spinward
Marches has always felt a bit neglected by Capital. To
express their grievances, not one but two of its Grand
Admirals travelled to Capital during the Civil War to
claim the throne by force. The League of Antares has
always had a strong independent streak. The region
changed hands multiple times during the Pacification
Campaigns and Julian War. Likewise, the Domain of
Ilelish remains a troubled region where a widespread
revolt once had to be put down.
Keeping the Imperium together is a constant
challenge. While the Emperors and the Moot have
done essentially what they set out to do – build a
massive empire based on free trade and the defence
of the space between its worlds – there are many
more issues to deal with. Maintaining unity has
always been the bane of the Emperor’s role and he
must be vigilant lest it slip from his grasp.

Imperial Society and Culture

Ultimately, the Imperium wants trading partners, not
enemies. The empire was founded on the principles
of free trade and the benefits derived from commerce
between worlds. Conflict and war, especially on an
interstellar scale, are expensive activities that the
Imperium works hard to avoid. When war is required,
the Imperial doctrine is to defeat enemy navies and
occupy their worlds, suing for peace after victory
is (hopefully) achieved. Overly destructive orbital
bombardments and the use of weapons of mass
destruction are generally avoided in modern times,
although the Imperium has not outwardly prohibited
such actions and maintains immense arsenals of
nuclear, chemical and other destructive weapons.

of each sector and often between worlds. In the latter
case, squabbles can result in armed conflict, which
are usually resolved by the parties involved without
Imperial interference.

11

