Imperial law and ensures the secure flow of commerce
between its worlds. In short, the navy’s jobs are to
defend the Imperium from external enemies, rid it of
internal threats such as pirates and smugglers, and
protect the worlds of the Imperium from each other
when necessary.
The Imperial Navy is a vast interstellar military force
with bases spread throughout Imperial space. Most
sectors have a Naval Depot, a dedicated star system
where the navy’s starships are built and serviced.
Generally speaking, the Imperial Navy reserves its
larger ships – carriers, battleships, dreadnoughts
and so forth – for the defence of a sector against
external threats. The navy also maintains numbered
and colonial fleets in most subsectors. Colonial fleets
are smaller and usually composed of ships that would
otherwise have been sent to the breaker yard. These
fleets serve as a reserve and may be called upon to
serve in a variety of capacities when the numbered
fleets are otherwise engaged. Numbered fleets are
also called subsector fleets. Subsectors are feudal
subdivisions of Imperial sectors and subsector navies
are to some degree instruments of the nobility that
manage a given subsector. Numbered subsector
navies give structure to the greater Imperial Navy and
their ships are called upon to serve their respective
sector fleets as needed. Subsector fleets are mostly
composed of destroyer escorts, destroyers, cruisers
and various auxiliary spacecraft. Subsector navies may

have larger and older ships of the line in their service
but typically only on a provisional or temporary basis
from the parent Imperial Navy.
Planetary navies are significantly more diverse in
nature and purpose. In principle, a planetary navy
is any collection of spacecraft designated for the
defence of a single world or star system. This includes
system defence boats, fighters, armed traders and
other spacecraft that the system has procured for
its defence. The possession of a planetary navy is a
function of technology and means. Simply put, planets
with the necessary technology and a shipyard capable
of producing spacecraft are more likely to have one.
However, there are worlds of low technology with
no shipyards that nevertheless manage to import a
planetary navy. Generally speaking, systems of TL8+
and a starport of Class C or better have planetary
navies and those below may import one with the means
available to them.

SQUADRON AND FLEET ORGANISATION

The basic unit of the Imperial Navy is the squadron.
There are 3–10 ships in a squadron. This number
refers primarily to capital ships – destroyers, cruisers,
carriers and battleships – auxiliary, support and scout
spacecraft. Squadrons are organised into fleets, most
of which comprise between 3–10 squadrons. Therefore,
a typical fleet includes 50–100 starships. An average
Imperial sector has 1,000 ships in its subsector fleets.

Imperial Navy Squadron Types
Squadron Type

Typical Composition

Mission
Take thousands of troops into battle and drop
them upon the enemy in lift-infantry operations.

Battle Squadrons
(BatRons)

Meet enemy battleships and destroy them.

Flagship: Battleship, dreadnought or
battle tender (containing battle riders)
Components: Tanker, 2 carriers, 3
battleships/dreadnoughts, 3 scouts,
2 auxiliaries

Cruiser Squadrons Flagship: Cruiser or carrier
(CruRons)
Components: auxiliary, 4 cruisers, 2
scouts, 4 escorts

Support AssaultRons and BatRons by engaging
in battle, providing cover for lift-infantry drops,
supplying ordnance and taking on larger ships
when necessary.

Scout Squadrons
(ScoutRons)

Flagship: Scout cruiser
Components: Auxiliaries and scouts

Reconnaissance, intelligence gathering,
communication and exploration.

Tanker Squadrons
(TankRons)

Flagship: Cruiser
Components: 2 auxiliaries, 4 tankers, 4
scouts, 2 transports, 4 escorts

The unsung heroes of the fleet who keep the fleet
moving by refuelling, resupplying and maintaining
the ships of the line and doing whatever is
necessary to keep the mission going.

Imperial Military Forces

Assault Squadrons Flagship: Cruiser
(AssaultRons)
Components: Tanker or dromedary, 3–4
troop and equipment transports, 2 scouts,
various auxiliary spacecraft, 4 escorts

13

