T

The sector fleet is composed of the largest, most
powerful ships – the heavy carriers, battle tenders,
battleships and dreadnoughts.
The squadrons of the Imperial fleets are supported
by thousands of auxiliary craft, including destroyers,
destroyer escorts, close escorts, frigates, corvettes
and many other specialised spacecraft. In peacetime,
squadrons may be split into task forces or patrols in
order to cover several worlds in a single star system
but in wartime, squadrons rarely split up. They maintain
tight formation in order to deliver the most powerful
attacks possible.

NAVY BASES AND DEPOTS

Imperial Military Forces

The Imperial Navy maintains a system of bases
and depots. Bases include repair and maintenance
facilities, resupply stations, administrative offices and
housing for personnel who are on shore duty, being
transferred between ships or spending time in port
while their ships are serviced. Generally speaking,
planetside naval bases service ships of 1,000 tons
or less while larger ships are seen only at orbital
facilities. Navy bases are common in Imperial space,
typically with several in each subsector on selected
worlds with Class A or B starports.

14

Depots are allocated one per sector with two
exceptions. Delphi sector has two and the Spinward
Marches has none. Depots provide extensive repair
and construction facilities and can service large
portions of the fleet at any given time. Depots always
feature Class A starports since shipyards must be
present. Rarely restricted to a single world, most depots
utilise multiple planets in a single star system. They
are secure facilities and generally inhabited by naval
personnel and civilian contractors only. New starship
prototypes are often being built and tested at depots,
so access is highly restricted. One must be a member
of the navy or have special permission to enter a depot
system. For a complete description of Core sector
Depot, located in the Mekee subsector, see page 144.

IMPERIAL QUARANTINE AGENCY

The Quarantine Agency is a semi-autonomous
force integrated into the Imperial Navy. Its primary
role is to protect the empire from internal threats by
quarantining worlds.
Early in Imperial history, the Quarantine Agency was
an independent service with its own fleet of ships but it
was eventually thought more cost-effective to make it a

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

branch of the navy. At its height, the agency commanded
approximately 10 percent of the navy’s ships but that
number has since dwindled. With increasing technology
and automation, fleet elements can easily be annexed
by the agency as needed and assigned to handle
whatever mission needs to be done.
The Quarantine Agency was at one time more or less
equally divided into military and administrative offices
but in modern times the balance has shifted to the
administrative side.
During the early centuries of Imperial history, the
Quarantine Agency was involved in many operations
that required the ‘cleansing’ of entire worlds. If a world
was determined to be an existential threat to the
empire, naval elements interdicted the affected planet
and then bombarded it with capital ship armaments
and large bolides if a planetoid belt or similar resources
were present.
The Imperium has improved its ability to interdict worlds
over the centuries and cleansing operations are now
few and far between. However, the vigilant Quarantine
Agency keeps a watchful eye on all of Imperial space
and is always prepared to run a cleansing operation
should one be deemed necessary.

QUARANTINE AGENCY TRAVELLERS

The Quarantine Agency has a parallel structure
within the Imperial Navy with the same ranks,
although the maximum achievable rank
is commodore. Travellers can be created
by simply having a career in the navy and
declaring that their service was in the
Quarantine Agency.
The agency has an administrative branch
as well. Individuals who serve in the agency
often spend time in both branches. Service in
the administrative branch may be achieved
by serving terms in the Citizen (corporate) or
Noble (administrator) career. While the two
branches are intertwined, their ranks are not
interchangeable. When transferring from one
branch to the other, the Traveller’s rank returns
to 0 in the new branch, effectively starting a
new career.

R

