T

Imperial Marines

The Imperial Marines are the primary shipborne fighting
force of the Imperium. The marines are steeped
in tradition, having served admirably since year 0.
Imperial Marines are instantly recognisable by their
distinctive combat armour and battle dress. Likewise,
their dress uniform with its maroon tunic, white trousers
and shiny black boots tends to stand out in a crowd.
Marines who have taken part in a jump (orbital assault)
operation wear the drop slash, a small vertical piece of
cloth on the back of the collar, black on field fatigues
and red on the dress uniform tunic.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

Historically, marines were an amphibious fighting
force transported into combat zones by a wet navy.
While star marines are not carried aboard ocean-going
ships – although they can be, if necessary – Imperial
Marine units are carried on most naval spacecraft. The
purpose of a marine fighting force is essentially to finish
the job when naval force alone cannot do so. The first
stage of most wars is carried out between starships
but even after one side has defeated the other, the
losing side does not always surrender. Sometimes
an orbital assault is required on a planet, asteroid or
other terrestrial target to finish the job. Marines may
be involved in both stages of such a conflict, first by
raiding enemy spacecraft during a starship battle and
second by serving as jump troops.

20

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Raids are challenging. Taking an enemy starship,
even one that has been disabled, can be a dangerous
undertaking. Marine boarding parties stay in tight
communication with each other and maintain precise
spacing and coordination. Raiding marines arm
themselves with a cutlass, snub pistol, accelerator rifle
or laser carbine and a selection of appropriate hand
grenades. ACRs, gauss rifles and other long guns are
to be avoided since they are difficult to use in the tight
confines of a starship. Raiding a starship is a leap into
the great unknown. The crew might be prepared to
surrender or might be armed to the teeth and intent
on repelling boarders. Marines are always ready to
fight their way into a ship but must also be prepared
to fight their way back out if necessary. As a famous
marine once said, ‘there’s no such thing as retreat but
sometimes you can shoot in all directions’.
Jump troops drop from space with re-entry
capsules, ablative shields, deployment shuttles or other
means in order to spearhead an assault. For more
information about re-entry capsules, see page 46 of
High Guard. After a successful landing, the marines
usually give way to the army, who come in to secure
strategic targets and occupy worlds. In some cases,
marines stay to help. As the saying goes, ‘All marines
are riflemen’ and they are capable infantry.

R

