Marines are organised in regiments of 3,500 for lift
infantry deployments or Marine Expeditionary Forces
(MEFs) of 2,000 for jump-troop operations. MEFs
are austere units that include just enough support
personnel to enable the unit to operate independently
after a drop. The subordinate organisational structure
is the same as the army, except that squads are
called sections.
Powerful noble houses often maintain their own private
marine corps, called lift infantry regiments. For more
information on these, see Lift Infantry Regiments on
page 32.

BRANCHES OF THE MARINES

The Traveller Core Rulebook includes three branch
assignments for Travellers in the marines: support, star
marine and ground assault.
Support includes quartermasters, combat engineers,
medics, cavalry and staff. These are the marines who
run the raids, manage the drops and run the command
post during a lift operation. They are also the corpsmen,
the combat medics who patch the infantry back up and
ship them out or put them back into service. Marine units
are accustomed to absorbing a high casualty rate. A
qualified support team is the glue that keeps a regiment
or MEF running after the attrition of war takes its toll. It
should be noted that support staff are equally trained
and capable of picking up a rifle and donning a suit of
combat armour when called upon to do so.

ENCOUNTERS WITH THE IMPERIAL MARINES

Running into the Imperial Marines usually means that
the Travellers are somewhere they should not be. If
marines are encountered, they may have either just
completed a mission or are in the process of completing
one. Being caught in the middle of a marine deployment
can be dangerous. Marines performing a jump-troop
operation are a sight to see. Should a group of Travellers
find themselves on a world under siege, the sight of
thousands of ground assault marines dropping from

Travellers in possession of a starship may also
encounter marines when they are subjected to an
inspection. Most inspections are carried out by planetary
navies, some of whom maintain their own marines.
If the Travellers find themselves being boarded by
Imperial Marines, it typically means they have found
themselves in a critical location or situation. When
visiting worlds that have key Imperial assets – for
example, Capital, Reference or Depot – Travellers are
likely to be subjected to an Imperial Marine inspection.
The Travellers might also encounter the marines after
inadvertently wandering into a star system that is on
high alert. For example, the navy and marines may have
been called upon to quell a revolt or interdict a world.
Depending on the severity of the situation, all ships that
visit the system might be inspected. In such a situation,
the Travellers might want to make certain that they are
not carrying anything in their cargo hold that could be
construed as contraband.

A CASE OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY

Patron: Sergeant Laon Kantil, Imperial Marines
103rd Provisional Expeditionary Force
Mission: After coming out of jump at the
100-diameter limit, the Travellers’ ship is hailed
by a naval cutter, which demands they stand
down and prepare for boarding. The Travellers
might be rattled by the aggressiveness of the
orders they are given. The cutter docks with
their ship and they are subjected to a thorough
inspection by a section of Imperial Marines.
After (hopefully) finding nothing amiss, marine
Sergeant Kantil meets with the Travellers to
extend his apologies. Their ship was identified
on a list of possible smugglers; apparently, a
criminal operation on a nearby world has found a
way to ‘spoof’ transponder codes and has been
using them to impersonate law-abiding starship
crews. The sergeant informs the Travellers that
there is a reward for any information that leads to
the arrest of the criminals.
Reward: Cr100000 for information that leads to
the capture of the culprits, the Travellers get to
clear their names and they make a Contact of
Sergeant Kantil.

Imperial Military Forces

Star marines and ground assault are two sides of the
same coin: infantry. Star marines focus on raiding and
other shipborne operations and ground assault focus on
lift-infantry and jump-troop operations. To some extent,
marines from both branches are interchangeable. They
have similar skills and are trained on the same weapons
and gear for the most part. However, where star
marines rely on instinct, small arms and precise training
regimens, ground assault marines are more skilled in the
use of heavy weapons, military tactics and coordinating
operations with naval transport or marine armour units.

space could make for an exciting environment. However,
once they hit the ground, the Travellers should make
certain that they do not get caught between the marines
and their target.

21

