T

Imperial Army

The armies of the Imperium are much like planetary
navies. Each world maintains its own army based on its
population, available technology and individual needs.
However, unlike planetary navies, armies are expected
to contribute to the greater Imperial Army, sharing
certain methodologies, technological standards, tactics
and traditions.
Left to their own devices, the worlds of the Imperium
do not always make the most logical decisions when
it comes to building an army. Some worlds overbuild
theirs and others underestimate the need for one,
either fielding an army that ultimately proves to be
insufficient or, in some cases, having no army at
all. This environment produces a broad spectrum of
military solutions. Some worlds with no army have an
arrangement with one that does, thereby gaining a
portion of its soldiers for their own defence. Others rely
on mercenary forces. Some simply do without one,
passively benefitting from ‘herd immunity’ by being
among neighbours who have them.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The primary reason to have an army is to defend
one’s world, although many worlds, especially those
far from Imperial borders, do not see the need for one
in the civilised Imperium. This can be a mistake since
the Imperium does allow limited conquest to occur
between worlds. Those who have an army are not
given any form of largesse by the Imperium. Other than
the obvious security it provides, the benefits of having
an army are ephemeral. A world with an army can be
proud that it provides for its own defence and that of its
subsector by contributing to the Imperial Army. Worlds
endowed with armies have greater prestige simply
because they have demonstrated the ability to create
one. Such worlds are seen as valuable citizens of the
Imperium who contribute to its defence and become de
facto members of a martial community.
Worlds of the Imperium are likely to have armies
composed of the units described in the Unit Organisation
table. The larger the population of the world, the more
likely the structure will resemble standard units. Smaller
worlds (those with a Population code of 5 or less) may
have less structure or they may have a militia instead.
Militias may be organised in the same manner as
traditional military units but not all of them are.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

Unit Organisation

24

Unit

Description

Unit Commander

Fire Team

The fire team is the basic unit of the army and is exclusive to the infantry.

Corporal

Squad

Called a section by the marines, includes two or three fire teams (8–15
soldiers) and is exclusive to the infantry.

Sergeant

Platoon

Three or four squads (30–40 soldiers). May be commanded by a high-ranking
NCO but usually by a lieutenant. The fourth squad of a platoon is usually a
heavy or special weapons unit.

Second or First
Lieutenant

Company

Three or four platoons (100–250 soldiers). Commanded by an officer with
a high-ranking NCO. The fourth platoon of a company is usually a heavy or
special weapons unit.

Captain

Battalion

Three to five companies (400-1,500 soldiers). Commanded by an officer with
a small staff. Tanks and artillery are sometimes included. The basic unit of the
Imperial Army. This unit and larger are outfitted for independent operation.

Major or Lt. Colonel

Regiment

Three or four battalions (1,500–4,000 soldiers). Commanded by an officer and
staff. Tanks and artillery typically included. The basic unit of a subsector army.

Lt. Colonel or
Colonel

Brigade

Several battalions or regiments. Brigades include officer staffs and usually
contain significant cavalry and/or artillery elements.

Brigadier General

Division

Several regiments or brigades. Divisions are tasked with small- to mediumscale orbital assaults, planetary occupations and similar deployments.

Major General

Corps

Several divisions. Corps are tasked with large-scale assaults, planetary
occupations and similar deployments.

Lt. General

Army

Several corps. An army and its command structure may be associated with a
single world, a subsector or a sector. Planetary armies are interlocked via the
joint structure of the Imperial Army.

General

R

