Branches of the Army

The Traveller Core Rulebook includes three branch
assignments for Travellers in the army: infantry, cavalry
and support.

Personal armour improves with technology as well. At
lower Tech Levels, infantry soldiers will be unarmoured
or at best lightly armoured. By TL8, more effective
armour, weaponry and communications devices become
available. At TL10+, combat armour becomes available
for commandos and other specialised troops and at
TL12+ it becomes standard for most infantry.
Weaponry also varies with Tech Level. The standard
TL12 infantry soldier is armed with a gauss rifle, a
sidearm and an appropriate selection of grenades. At
least one fire team in each squad or platoon is equipped
with heavy weaponry, usually a tripod-mounted machine
gun or VRF gauss weapon but alternatives are available.

For a selection of armour and weaponry used by the
army, refer to the Central Supply Catalogue and the
Field Catalogue.
Cavalry on low-tech worlds are animal-mounted troops,
riding horses, kians or other effective warsteeds.
However, when in reference to the high-tech Imperial
Army, cavalry refers specifically to soldiers who fight in
fast, cross-country vehicles. At low- to mid-tech, cavalry
operate small vehicles, trucks, halftracks, APCs and
tanks. At higher Tech Levels, gravitic vehicles become
standard. At the upper end of a cavalry unit are the
tankers who operate armoured fighting vehicles (AFVs),
armed with a deadly array of weaponry designed to kill
infantry and destroy other vehicles and tanks.
Support roles are many and varied in a high-tech
army, including artillery, combat engineers, medics
and staff. Artillery are trained in the use of the army’s
field weapons. At low- to mid-Tech Levels, artillery
is composed of large-calibre slug-throwing weapons
that fire explosive munitions. As Tech Levels increase,
artillery includes multiple rocket launchers (MRLs) and
energy weapons that inflict massive amounts of damage

Imperial Military Forces

Infantry are the ground pounders, the poor souls who
endure the brunt of war more than any other branch.
Historically, infantry soldiers are required to take
and occupy enemy territory, often suffering horrific
casualties in the process. This does not change at
higher Tech Levels. What does change is the mode
of transportation. At low Tech Levels, infantry are
expected to walk from place to place, sometimes
alongside armoured vehicles once TL4–7 is reached.
At TL6–8, infantry are transported in trucks, armoured
personnel carriers (APCs) and other vehicles, but
ultimately they find themselves in the same place; out
in the open, hopefully in a foxhole with a rifle in hand,
defending whatever territory their army has taken. At
higher Tech Levels, gravitic transportation becomes
available. At TL8–9, half of all vehicles are likely to be
gravitic. By TL10+, gravitic APCs are standard and
become better armed and armoured as
technology advances.

Two subsets of infantry are lift infantry and jump troops.
Lift infantry are soldiers in gravitic vehicles. Jump
troops are dropped from orbit in specialised pods
or with the aid of an ablative shield to plunge safely
through atmosphere. Once on the ground, they are the
vanguard of a larger assault force and often dropped in
zones where they are to eliminate strategic targets or
secure landing zones for the remainder of the army. Lift
infantry are typically equipped with combat armour and
light weaponry. Jump troops in the army are special
forces as opposed to the marines, all of whom are
trained for such operations. Notably, jump-trained army
units post ‘drop wings’ on their uniforms while marines
retain a space for wings but do not post them since all
marines are jump troops.

25

