T

to enemy structures and personnel alike. Artillery is often
referred to as simply ‘the killer’ for its astounding ability
to suppress mobility and inflict casualties.

BUILDING IMPERIAL ARMY UNITS

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

The concept of an empire-wide army did not take
hold until the advent of the Third Imperium. The
Sylean Federation had no unified army to speak of,
instead allowing each of its worlds to raise its own
army independently. While the Syleans did occupy
worlds, notably during their war with the Interstellar
Confederacy, individual armies were placed under
the joint control of the president and Grand Senate of
Sylea. Likewise, the Rule of Man applied a haphazard
strategy, using armies from hundreds of worlds to
pacify and occupy the worlds that it conquered from the
Ziru Sirka. These methods were examined by the Third
Imperium from a historical perspective and each was
found lacking.

26

The Imperium intended to become a far greater and
more expansive empire than its predecessors. If the
Warrant for the Restoration of the Imperium was to be
realised – which claimed possession of all worlds held
by the previous human empires – then a more unified
structure would be needed. Cleon Zhunastu believed
that free trade and defence of the space between
its worlds would be the glue that held the Imperium
together. Despite his objection to the use of force to
coerce worlds into accepting Imperial membership, he
realised that an Imperial Army would be required. Not
every world in Charted Space could be expected to
accept the Imperium’s offer and there would come a
day when it would be unacceptable, even dangerous,
to have islands of independence in the midst of
the empire. Furthermore, once the Imperium was
established, revolts and insurrections would inevitably
have to be put down from time-to-time.
In many ways, the Sylean model was merely improved
upon. Individual worlds are still encouraged to raise
their own armies but the joint-command structure at
Capital, and subordinate commands in each sector
and subsector, have a much more active role in the
maintenance, standardisation and training of planetary
armies. Imperial Army units are configured at the
subsector level. Individual worlds provide regiments
that are organised into divisions during deployments
and, if necessary, subsector divisions can be further
organised into corps and whole armies if a larger
deployment is necessary. Subsector-level Imperial
Army units have been mobilised many times, usually

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

to put down revolts or fight small wars. Sector-wide
corps have only been organised into an army on one
occasion: the Solomani Rim War.
The armies of individual worlds are organised within
the Imperial Army as either attached or contributed
formations. Attached formations are armies that do
not regularly train with those of other worlds. As such,
they may have distinctive tactics, cultures, uniforms,
equipment and Tech Levels. When integrated into
an Imperial Army division, attached formations are
generally segregated from units that are built from
contributed formations. Likewise, attached formations
are given suitable assignments for units that do not
regularly ‘play for the team’. Contributed formations
regularly train with one another and have an array of
standards that make it easy to mix and match troops
from multiple worlds into a cohesive subsector or
sector army.
Configuring subsector Imperial Army divisions has its
challenges. While some worlds have armies that are
large enough to handle an interstellar deployment on
their own, this practice is frowned upon. Allowing the
army of a single world to occupy another sends the
wrong message, even when putting down a revolt.
Furthermore, armies are effectively subcultures of
worlds. As such, each has a unique persona and
characteristics. Deploying the army of one world

MESON REBELLION

A recent example of an interstellar deployment
was the Meson Rebellion in 1032 on Khikaba
in Lishun. After Imperial Navy squadrons
secured the system and Imperial Marine lift
infantry secured a landing zone, an Imperial
Army division, composed of regiments from
Biaz Ven, Iksha and Surli, was deployed to the
system mainworld to secure it. The garrison
remains on Khikaba to this day and each of the
regiments involved rotates troops into and out
of the operational theatre. Counterinsurgency
personnel were brought in to perform
inspections of various sites and ensure that no
items of TL9+ reach the planet. In the case of
this deployment, the regiment from low-tech
Surli were trained in the use of TL12 weapons,
the standard for the deployment.

R

