to another can result in a clash of cultures. For
this reason, most Imperial Army deployments are
composed of contributed formations from several
worlds, transforming them into members of the
homogenised Imperial Army.
Clashing cultures are not the only factors to contend
with when assembling a subsector army out of
contributed formations. The Imperium has a broad
range of population and Tech Levels. There are hightech worlds with large populations, low-tech worlds with
medium populations, mid-tech worlds with middling
populations and every other combination in between.
The Tech Level differences between armies can be
significant. In the Core sector alone, there are massive
disparities. For example, the high-population world of
Shiirand has an army of 34 million soldiers, all of whom
use TL7 equipment. Meanwhile, three parsecs away,
the army of Ushra has 105 million soldiers armed to a
much higher TL12 standard. The Imperium mitigates
this imbalance with joint training exercises. Several
battalions of Shiirand’s army are regularly deployed
to Ushra to train with weapons and vehicles of higher

technology. Likewise, soldiers in Ushra’s army might be
rotated to TL14 Alekvadin to learn how to use manportable fusion weapons in a separate cross-training
programme. It is not cost-effective for every soldier
in a multi-million-sophont army to be shipped out to
multiple worlds over the course of a military career.
To help remedy this situation, soldiers who have been
trained on weapons, vehicles and gear from highertech worlds are usually assigned the task of training
their own soldiers in the use of the same equipment.
Ultimately, a lower-tech army returns to its standard
equipment but chances are that most of the soldiers in
a subsector army have been exposed to high-tech gear
at some point during their careers. Therefore, when
called upon to serve in an interstellar deployment, the
soldiers of any world’s army are generally proficient at
the technological standard that is provided.

ENCOUNTERS WITH THE IMPERIAL ARMY

The Imperial Army is almost everywhere in the
Imperium. Use a world’s Universal World Profile as a
guide with the following caveats. Note that this applies
strictly to worlds within the boundaries of the Imperium.

Population

Imperial Army Presence

4 or below

No independent army unless Government code is 6 (see below). A militia may be present or the
world might be defended by a detachment from a nearby world that has a higher population.

5

Militia or Imperial Army present. Worlds with Population 5 are on the dividing line. Some will
have a large militia and others a small army. If the world has an army, it may be part of the
Imperial Army.

6 or higher

Imperial Army present. If Government code is 6, the world may have a captive government or
military rule.

Imperial Army Presence

6

If the world is a colony, it may have no military at all, or might have a militia or Imperial Army
unit present. If the world has a captive government or military rule, the Imperial Army or an
army of a neighbouring world occupies the world.

7

Balkanised worlds are variable. Some have nation states at odds with each other may have
a larger military presence than is normal. Others are peaceable and do not have an elevated
military presence. In either case, balkanised worlds with Population 6+ are expected to
contribute forces to the Imperial Army at the subsector level as normal.

A or higher

More complex forms of government are often bolstered by or require the presence of a larger
military. Oligarchies, dictatorships and autocracies are usually enforced by a large army.

Law Level

Imperial Army Presence

9 or below

Standard Imperial Army presence.

A or higher

Higher Law Levels may indicate the presence of a larger, more invasive army. However, a high
Law Level almost certainly indicates the presence of a larger, more intrusive police force. In some
cases, the two go hand-in-hand.

Imperial Military Forces

Government

27

