T

Soldiers of the Imperial Army are a common sight on
many Imperial worlds but are most visible on worlds
with Population 5+, Government 6 or A and higher and
a Law Level of A or higher. Worlds with Government
6 are governed by a colony, captive government or
military rule. A colony world is likely to have a militia
but a world with a captive government or military rule
often has an occupying army present. In some cases, a
high-ranking officer in the Imperial Army is the military
governor of the world, although the role may be held by
an officer of the Imperial Navy or an appointed civilian
administrator who serves as a proxy for the military.
A world under military rule is sometimes governed
by a nearby star system, which may install a local
representative to administer it.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

A LITTLE PIECE OF HOME

28

Patron: Captain Qilaria Odom, Requisitions
Officer, 467th Infantry.
Mission: The garrison at Adkhi/Core has
been present for decades, quelling an
insurgency from Chanestin separatists. The
467th is composed of three regiments out of
the Saregon subsector. The regiments hail
from Arvlaa Gam, Gaen Luum and Khuir.
Due to high-priority police actions on Igla and
Shakiiga, the garrison on Adkhi has had its tour
extended and the troops are getting restless.
Captain Odom wants to boost their morale
by giving them a little taste of home. Military
budgets are tight but Odom has been given
a reasonable discretionary fund to acquire
foods, entertainment products and other goods
from each of the regiment’s homeworlds.
The Travellers are hired to pick up 30 tons of
freight and an additional 20 tons of goods (the
portions from each world to be determined
by the Referee) that will give these homesick
soldiers something to be excited about. The 20
tons of speculative cargo is at the discretion
of the Travellers but should reflect the unique
cultures of each world.
Reward: Standard freight fees and
speculative cargo revenue plus future
contracts with the army if the goods are well
received by the troops.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Worlds with other government types may also have
offworld Imperial Army units present. A captive
government is not required. Sometimes it is deemed
expedient to delegate defence to a more willing and
capable partner. For example, Duuka in Core is an
agricultural world with a population of 600,000. The
world has no military of its own but has a small Imperial
Army presence from nearby Mish, a high-population,
industrialised world that relies upon Duuka for
foodstuffs and other agricultural products.

R

