T

Huscarles and
the Imperial Guard

Huscarles are the private armies of the Imperial nobility.
The greatest of these armies is the Imperial Guard,
composed of 11 regiments of crack troops and other
support units.

HUSCARLES

Largely a conceit of the Civil War era, powerful noble
houses established personal bodyguard regiments,
some of which were later converted into regular
Imperial Army units. Perhaps the most famous of these
is the 4518th Imperial Lift Infantry Regiment, the Duke
of Regina’s Own Huscarles. This unit was initially
assembled for the protection of Baron Caranda of
Regina, who modified the force into a fighting unit. The
Huscarles were used to quell dissent among the worlds
of the Marches after Arbellatra Alkhalikoi ascended
to the role of Imperial Regent. They also fought in all
subsequent Frontier Wars as contributed formations of
the Imperial Army.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

In the modern era, many noble houses retain similar
units which have varying degrees of utility and battlereadiness. Based on the precedent set by the 4518th,
these units are called household troops or simply
Huscarles. These private regiments may be established
as attached or contributed formations of the Imperial
Army but the Emperor has stated his preference that
they be of the latter. If the peerage is to keep private
military forces, it is best they are seen as team players
when it comes to serving the empire. Nevertheless,
some nobles maintain regiments as strictly attached
formations for various reasons.

32

It may seem contrary or even seditious to have private
military forces in the Imperium but it is allowed for a
number of reasons. At their best, lift infantry regiments
set the standard for other army units. Because the
armies of Imperial worlds are organised independently,
standards are virtually impossible to enforce. As the
armies of the peerage, Huscarles have access to
Imperial technology, which they may train local forces
to use. They operate as agents and advocates for the
greater Imperial Army, proffering tactical and training
standards that might otherwise not exist on worlds
that are far from the Core. Their presence is also a
not-so-subtle reminder to the citizens of the Imperium
that should they fail to comply with Imperial law, the
noble bureaucracy can be transformed into a tool of
enforcement when called upon to do so.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

There are places in the Imperium where the nobility
is much more at odds with one another but nobles
are strictly forbidden to directly engage each other
in private wars with their Huscarles regiments. In
contentious sectors like Deneb, opposed noble
houses sometimes push the envelope. Most are
careful not to directly do battle with each other, but
their Huscarles may sometimes be found on the same
battlefield in direct opposition to each other with proxy
forces formed from local armies and mercenaries
doing the actual fighting.
For more information on Huscarles, refer to the article
on the 4518th Lift Infantry in Journal of the Travellers’
Aid Society Volume 2.

THE IMPERIAL GUARD

The greatest of all household troops are the Emperor’s
Imperial Guard. Headquartered on Capital, the Imperial
Guard are responsible for the defence of the Imperial
Palace and its Emperor. The Guard was officially
founded by Emperor Cleon I in the year 52 when it
consisted of just one regiment, the hallowed Sylean
Guard. However, the Guard claims that its history
extends back to the Rule of Man, whose Emperor was
also defended by a force known as the Imperial Guard.
Imperial Guard forces inhabit a broad, multi-level
section near the crown of the spherical palace, where
they are trained and housed. The Imperial Guard is
designed to reflect the diversity of the Imperium and
includes nine lift-infantry regiments (one from each
Imperial Domain plus the Aslan and Marine regiments),
as well as artillery and cavalry regiments.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The Sylean Guard
The Vilani Guard
The Gateway Guard
The Ilelish Guard
The Antares Guard
The Imperial Artillery
The Household Cavalry
The Spinward Marches Guard
The Marine Guard (also known as the Marine
Escort Service)
The Aslan Guard
The Solomani Guard

Adjuncts to the Guard are the Imperial Marine Escort
Force, the Scout Service Protection Detail and the
Imperial Navy Escort Squadron. The primary duty of
the Marine Escort Force is to serve aboard the Pax
Imperii, the 10,000-ton yacht that serves as the flagship
of the Emperor’s personal fleet. Members of the

R

