Imperial Guard and its supporting forces are bestowed
the honour of membership in the Knightly Order of the
Emperor’s Guard.

Imperial Guard Service Skills

The Imperial Guard are regularly seen by the public
when performing the popular changing of the guard
ceremony in the parade grounds directly below the
Grand Palace of Arbellatra. However, they are much
more than ceremonial troops. Guard members are
hand selected from the ranks of the Imperial Army
and Marines for their martial talents and distinguished
service. While most serve on Capital, Imperial
Guard regiments have been assigned combat roles
throughout history and deployed far and wide in
service to the Imperium. Some of their more famous
actions include an inspiring deployment to fight in the
Vargr Campaigns, multiple Frontier War deployments,
the fight to the death by the Aslan regiment in defence
of Empress Jacqueline against Grand Admiral Olav
and the palace coup that led to the ascendance of
Emperor Gavin.

Serving in the Imperial Guard

Travellers serving in Army or Marine careers may
attempt to join the Imperial Guard. Most applications
to the Guard occur mid-service, after the Traveller
has already served one or more terms. Service in the
Guard has the following prerequisites:
• Currently serving in the Army or Marines
• STR or END 10+
• Vacc Suit 1 or higher
• Received a promotion in the term just prior
to application
• No Mishaps have been incurred during the
Traveller’s career

A Traveller may attempt only one qualification roll for
service in the Imperial Guard. Failure indicates that the
Traveller was not accepted or washed out during the
qualification trials and has been banned from future
qualification attempts.
The first term served in the Guard is spent in training. In
addition to the skill that is normally received, Travellers
obtain one additional skill from the Imperial Guard
Service Skills table.

Skill

1

Admin

2

Athletics

3

Carouse

4

Diplomat

5

Melee (blade)

6

Persuade

The Traveller may remain in the Imperial Guard if
advancement is successful; otherwise, the Traveller
leaves the Imperial Guard and may resume their career
in the Army or Marines. Exceptions to the rule are the
Marine Escort Service and the Aslan Guard. Members
of these units may remain in the Guard for the duration
of their careers regardless of whether they successfully
advance in each term.
Travellers who serve two or more terms in the Imperial
Guard receive DM+1 on all non-cash Benefit rolls and
may automatically choose TAS Membership as one
of their Benefits. In addition, the value of any material
Benefit received (e.g., Gun, Blade, Implant) may be
up to twice the value listed in the Benefit’s description.
The Traveller also receives SOC+2 from having served
in the most hallowed and decorated service of the
Imperial military forces.

Imperial Military Forces

Qualification: 11+.
DM+1 if STR 10+. DM+1 if END 10+. DM+1 if SOC 9+.

1D

33

