T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Imperial Interstellar
Scout Service
PROJECT SHORTBOW

As the Major Races began to reach out to
the stars and build interstellar polities, most
established the seat of empire in a single star
system, usually on a single world. A capital might
be placed on the surface of a system mainworld,
the moon of a gas giant, a large hollowed out
asteroid or even an orbital habitat. Such a capital
is vulnerable to destruction by a large impactor.
A bolide of significant size – perhaps only 10 or
more kilometres in diameter – could be hurtled at
such a target at high – even relativistic – speeds
with cataclysmic effects. To prevent such a thing
from happening, the Short Baseline Observation
Window (a.k.a., Project Shortbow) programme
was created.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

Project Shortbow is administered and staffed
by a secret agency of the Imperial Academy of
Science and Medicine in concert with the Imperial
Navy Science Division. The technology created
by the project is essentially a collection of sensor
devices and an immense telescopic array that
watches for potentially hostile anomalies that
might be directed towards Capital. Similar, less
expansive systems exist on other Imperial worlds
of great import, including Reference and the
majority of Imperial Depots.

38

Shortbow is not a fool-proof system. Space is
immense and it is nigh impossible to see all
possible dangers; however, the technological
aspect of the project is merely one component.
Imperial Naval Intelligence has a veritable army of
operatives who keep a watchful eye on dissident
groups and other potential bad actors. If detected,
it is better to nip such problems in the bud rather
than waiting to let them mount a viable threat.

The Scout Service is a fabled institution whose
origins predate the Third Imperium. Scouts in the
Sylean Federation were mostly freelance explorers
who sold their data to the highest bidder until their
services were organised under the aegis of the Sylean
Federation Scout Service. The Scout Service was
restructured and renamed the Imperial Interstellar
Scout Service in the year 0.
The modern Scout Service has three branches:
Communications, Survey and Exploration. The
primary responsibility of the Communications branch
is the operation and maintenance of the Imperial
X-Boat Network, which provides communication
services for the entire Imperium. X-boats are small
starships with jump-4 capability that jump from system
-to-system, transmitting mail and other data between
Imperial worlds. With no manoeuvre drives of their
own, x-boats are serviced by x-boat tenders, which
are stationed in every system to which x-boats travel.
A reserve of Type-S scout/couriers are also present
to transfer information to worlds that are off the main
x-boat routes.
The Survey branch is responsible for scientific
data collection and stellar cartography (also called
astrocartography). Survey scouts are the unsung
heroes of the service, recording the stellar and
planetology data of each system, working their way
from the primary star to the Oort cloud and measuring
for subtle changes on subsequent visits. Survey goes
beyond Imperial borders to record data from foreign or
unincorporated star systems.

SURVEY

COMMUNICATIONS

EXPLORATION

R

