Survey Branch Mission Types
Survey Class

Description

Class I

Conducted from a distance of 1–2 parsecs, determines the basic stellar and planetary data of
a star system. Duration: 1 day.

Class II

In-system survey of primary and subsequent stars and all planetary bodies of notable size.
Duration: 1 week.

Class III

Detailed examination of notable planetary bodies. Landing parties launched when necessary.
Duration: 10 weeks.

Class IV

Detailed survey of system mainworld and other habitable zone bodies. Probes and landing
parties launched to confirm data. Duration: 30 weeks.

Class V

Detailed probes and surveys of all planetary bodies in a star system, including landing parties
to confirm data. Duration: 5–10 years.

Exploration is often seen as the most glamourous
branch of the Scout Service but it is also the most
dangerous. More scouts serving in Exploration are lost
than from any other branch. Exploration scouts are
sent into charted but unexplored systems, their mission
to perform cursory surveys and close examinations of
planetary bodies if irregularities or anomalies are found.
They may also be called upon to perform contact
and liaison missions if sophonts are encountered.
Newly discovered sophonts are often left alone if
the Scout Service determines that a species should
be allowed to develop at its own pace and without
Imperial interference. Worlds with such populations
are sometimes interdicted. Such missions may last
centuries or even millennia if necessary.

The Scout Service is overseen by Administration
and Operations offices that report to each branch.
Administration is responsible for the upkeep of the
service, making sure that it has the starships, small
craft, vehicles, gear and other resources that it needs
to do its many jobs. Administration also recruits new
members to the service, often from far-flung worlds of
the Imperium. The IISS, more than any other military
service, is known for its diversity and inclusion policies.
The service actively recruits alien sophonts from all
Imperial worlds – and sometimes those beyond its
borders – and is known for providing or even devising
special equipment to accommodate those from exotic

Imperial Military Forces

The one thing all three branches have in common is
the Type-S scout, the modern version of which is the
Suleiman-class. The Communications branch uses
them to transport information to worlds that are off the
x-boat routes, keeping them in the loop and ensuring
that every Imperial world has access to current
information. The Survey and Exploration branches use

them as utility starships, performing any number of
necessary tasks. Type-S scouts are sometimes named
by their crews but officially they only have call signs:
a single letter (C for Communications, S for Survey or
E for Exploration), six numerical digits followed by a
hyphen and a random letter. Survey scouts also use
the Donosev-class survey scout ship, a 400-ton ship
with more advanced sensors, which enables them to
collect the detailed data required.

39

