T

environments. Subordinate to Administration are
the Technical Services and Detached Duty offices.
Technical Services are called upon to solve complex
technical problems or fix damaged scout ships and
other equipment. Scouts from each branch are
expected to be technically competent and repair their
own gear if possible, so Technical Services are only
called upon for the most difficult jobs. The Detached
Duty office maintains and assigns the service’s
immense fleet of retired starships. They also keep
track of the ex-scouts to which these ships have been
assigned. The phrase ‘Once a scout, always a scout’ is
the credo of Detached Duty who track down and assign
missions to scouts who have been blessed with the
possession of a hardy scout/courier for their own use.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

The Operations division of each branch – called ‘Ops’
by members of the service – evaluates and assigns all
scout missions. Jobs in Operations are often thought
to be mundane; they are, in fact, anything but. Ops
assignments are often on frontier worlds, backwaters
and other underserved places where the IISS has
deployed a base. Ops personnel are always linked
with one of the three primary branches and sometimes
manage to put themselves in danger when evaluating
whether a mission is required. Ops also includes the
vaunted Security division, which protects valuable
service assets and engages in espionage activities.

40

While the scouts are often viewed as only a scientific
service or perhaps ‘paramilitary’ at best, they do put
themselves in harm’s way and also provide some
distinctly military services. The Scout Service Imperial
Protection Detail has served the Emperor for centuries,
operating as a lightly armed secret service whose sole
job it is to prevent an assassination from taking place,
sacrificing their lives if necessary.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

found only on worlds with Class A or B starports. There
are typically two to four way stations per sector with as
many as nine in the more populous, centrally located
sectors of the Imperium.

Mercenary Forces

The worlds of the Imperium are rife with opportunities
for the mercenary soldier. Despite its vastness,
great wealth and the power of its military forces, the
Imperium cannot be everywhere at once, nor does it
try to be. Its worlds are free to raise their own armies
and govern themselves as they wish, provided they
do not break Imperial laws. As such, conflicts develop
between rival forces on individual worlds and, in some
cases, between worlds in neighbouring star systems.
The Imperium rarely gets involved in these dustups
unless they threaten the regional economy or passage
of free trade. To a certain extent, the Imperium actually
supports the notion of small, contained wars as a
necessary outlet for social and political pressures.
Suppressing conflicts can cause greater problems
than simply allowing them to progress naturally. This is
where the soldier for hire comes into play.
Mercenary forces have found active employment in
all sectors of the Imperium. A common misconception
is that mercenaries are less common closer to the
Imperial Core, which is far from the case. The types
of tickets available on the frontier may differ from
those in the interior but the uneven landscape of
the Imperium is fallow ground for dissension and
conflict. When conflicts escalate to war, parties with
the means may hire mercenaries to achieve specific
objectives, secure their territory or assets from real or
perceived threats, train militias and armies in the use
of modern weaponry and, in many cases, simply to
fight alongside their own armies.

The IISS maintains a system of bases and way
stations. Scout bases include administrative centres
and repair and maintenance facilities for scout vessels.
Scout bases may be located on worlds with a Class D
or better starport but are most common on worlds with
lower starport levels. Many of these worlds are found
in low-tech, out-of-the-way star systems. Scout bases
may be located in orbital or planetary facilities since the
majority of scout ships are in the sub-1,000-ton range.

Conflicts between nations and worlds are not the only
venues where mercenaries find gainful employment.
Corporations and megacorporations frequently hire
them. Security contracts are given to reputable
mercenary units to protect key personnel, industrial
facilities, prototypes being transferred between
corporate sites and similar jobs. Corporations
sometimes engage each other in more direct conflict
as well. As long as such conflicts do not boil over and
affect the Imperial economy in a noticeable way, they
are often allowed to occur.

Way stations provide support, repair and maintenance
for the vast Imperial X-Boat Network and training and
personnel services for the entire IISS. Way stations are

The mercenary services market varies widely. At the
lower end, some are barely more than vagabonds
with a few combat skills who hire on as paid killers.

SCOUT BASES AND WAY STATIONS

R

