Independent contractors with a higher degree of
professionalism sell their skills to more reputable
clients and often hire on with a bonded mercenary
company. Mercenary companies vary widely as
well. Some are generalists who take on a variety of
contracts, others specialise in fields like shipboard
defence, security, commando operations, mobile
armour and field training. The size of these companies
varies, with some as small as a fire team and others
battalion-sized or larger.
For more information on mercenaries and rules for
running detailed mercenary campaigns, refer to the
Mercenary box set.

Deep Dive

Security, Platoon. Cr100000 per month plus salaries
and bonus. Ongoing.
Zirgamsa Ruaka Corporation (ZRC) is a resourceextraction firm focused on obtaining materials for the
starship manufacturing industry. ZRC is a well-funded
firm whose lead investor is Achenaar Antilles, the
sector-wide merchant line. ZRC is headquartered on
Gaen Luum/Core and has a limited-term contract to
develop a previously untouched undersea lanthanum
lode on Arvlaa Gam. Arvlaa Gam does not have
the resources or technology to access the lode and
requires the assistance of its high-tech neighbour.
After the term of their contract has expired, ZRC must
terminate the extraction operation and leave the gear
behind for a consortium of local firms to continue
working the mine.

REFEREE’S INFORMATION

There are a number of issues at play here. On the
surface, a ragtag group of miners should pose no
threat to a well-trained and equipped platoon of
mercenaries. However, what neither ZRC nor the
mercenaries know is that the lanthanum acquired has
already been pre-sold to a subsidiary of Achenaar
Antilles. Tukera Lines, which is in heated competition
for routes in the Saregon subsector, has gotten word
of this operation through its corporate intelligence
arm. Tukera has surreptitiously equipped the miners
with high-tech weapons and equipment from offworld.
While most of the miners are not well-trained in the
use of the equipment, merely having it makes them
more dangerous than expected. In addition, Tukera
operatives are providing support and intelligence to
the miners.

MISSION PHASES

The first phase of the mission is to secure the starport
on Gaen Luum while mining equipment and vehicles
are loaded onto Achenaar Antilles freighters. The
Arvlaa Gam Miners’ Union is not thought to have the
resources or reach to sabotage the mission at this
point but ZRC is a somewhat paranoid company and
does not want to take chances.
The second phase is the arrival on Arvlaa Gam and
transit to the work site. The platoon is split into two
sections for this phase. One accompanies part of
the expedition to the coastal city of Madinudadi,
where ZRC is to rent several submersibles and other
watercraft for use at the work site. The second section
reports directly to the work site where survey and
initial set-up is performed, including the construction
of a floating structure where the ZRC miners,
personnel and mercenaries will be housed for the
duration of the operation.
The third phase is to make sure that the operation
is secure for its duration. ZRC suggests setting up
listening posts in the region.

Imperial Military Forces

Arvlaa Gam is administered by Saregon but its people
are largely left to govern themselves. The power
vacuum sometimes creates conflicts between industrial
concerns on the planet. A conglomeration of mining
firms confidentially established the contract with ZRC,
going over the heads of its own miners’ union. The
project was intended to be confidential but there was
a leak. ZRC considered scuttling the operation but
a lanthanum shortage in the Shesh belt made them
decide to go through with it in spite of the risks. The
union and excluded companies have expressed their
displeasure that the mine was being developed without
their involvement by an offworld agency. The union and
some of the excluded mining companies have vowed to
oppose the operation, violently if necessary.

ZRC needs a platoon-sized mercenary unit to provide
security for a multiple-phase ticket. They are offering
Cr100000 per month plus standard salaries for the unit
for the duration of the ticket. An additional bonus of
Cr50000 will be given if none of ZRC’s equipment is
damaged by the opposition.

41

