IMPERIAL NAVAL INTELLIGENCE

Perhaps the best-known spy agency is Imperial
Naval Intelligence (INI). The INI has officers posted
to most Imperial Navy bases. The vast majority of
INI officers are administrators who use the navy’s
considerable reach to surveil and collect data on
everything from current events on Imperial worlds,
interplanetary incidents, interstellar anomalies,
potential threats to the Imperium, conflicts between
rival corporate entities and merchant activity at all
levels, from megacoporate freighters down to the
interface lines. It is considerably more difficult to
track the activities of tramp traders but the INI has
been known to investigate suspected smugglers,
pirates and other suspected malcontents among the
free trader community from time-to-time.
INI administrators are given broad discretionary
powers, including the ability to hire and train
agents. Mid-level INI officers, often called ‘minders’,
are permitted to build intelligence networks with
certain guidelines and limitations. These networks
are composed of smaller units called cells, which
typically include 4–12 individual agents. Cells are
carefully cultivated and managed by their minders
and a given cell might not even be aware of
another’s existence within the same organisation
or that of another minder. Minders are careful to
prevent their cells from working at cross purposes or
inadvertently interfering with each other’s missions.
The technology available to INI administrators makes
managing a complex array of cells relatively trivial
but care must be taken nonetheless.

IISS INTELLIGENCE

While there is no official structure such as that in the
INI, members of IISS Intelligence often build networks
of cells that resemble those of the navy. Their primary
recruits are retired scouts, particularly those assigned
scout ships by the Detached Duty division. Obligated
by the Scout Service to serve when called upon to
do so, detached duty scouts and their ships make

Most INI officers stay in administrative roles and
operatives are rarely drawn from long-term career
ranks of the navy itself. However, naval officers
can and do become field agents on occasion.
These agents have their naval rank frozen
for the duration of their service as intelligence
operatives. Many are outfitted with augments that
prevent them from being able to give up state
secrets or key data regarding the movement or
operation of Imperial Navy vessels.
Travellers may be created who have served in
both INI administration or field operative roles.
Travellers in INI administration must be officers
in the line/crew assignment of the Navy career.
However, skills received from the Line/Crew table
are replaced with the following:

1D

LINE/CREW

1

Electronics

2

Admin

3

Gun Combat

4

Streetwise

5

Persuade

6

Deception

To become an INI field agent, the Traveller must
first serve at least one term in the Navy career,
then successfully qualify for the Agent career,
selecting the intelligence assignment. Failure to
qualify indicates that the Traveller’s request to
receive a field agent posting has been denied.
Terms served as a field agent are carried out as a
separate career. However, if the Traveller opts to
transfer back into the Navy administration role, no
roll is required; the Traveller simply resumes the
following term in line/crew, as before, returning
to the rank held previously. The Traveller may
also opt to transfer to another branch in the
Navy career as normal. When mustering out, the
Traveller may make all rolls on the Navy Benefits
tables or may split the rolls between the two
careers based on terms served in each.

Imperial Military Forces

The Scout Service also maintains an intelligence
service, which is subordinate to its Security division.
Unlike the navy, where INI officers manage a network
of intelligence agents, in the scouts agents are part
of the standard IISS framework. The scouts have
a much looser hierarchy than the navy and their
intelligence services reflect that. Agents do not
receive specialised training, instead using the skills
they have acquired in their chosen branch to carry
out espionage and intelligence-gathering duties.

ON HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY’S SECRET SERVICE

43

