T

R

A

V

E

L

L

excellent spies. Scouts who run the networks are not
called minders as they are in the INI but do have a
number of less-official nicknames, some of which are
a little derisive. Den mother, trail boss and cat herder
are some of the more popular ones.
Agents in the Scout Service are often seen as ‘the
foreign office’ whereas INI agents operate within the
Imperium most of the time. Many scouts, especially
those in the Exploration branch, have travelled beyond
Imperial borders, giving them a greater understanding
of alien cultures and foreign polities. As such, they
often make better operatives for missions outside of the
Imperium; intelligence agents from the scouts are often
recruited by INI minders when they require an agent
with foreign expertise.

IMPERIAL MILITARY FORCES

The Agent

44

Patron: INI Minder, Lt. Nimath Tence, who might
be a Contact or Ally of one of the Travellers but
at the very least he has selected them on good
authority that they are a trustworthy group loyal to
the Imperium.
Location: Rorpa Din/Chant.
Pre-requisites: This patron encounter is based
on Marc Miller’s Traveller novel, Agent of the
Imperium. Ideally, the Traveller who installs the
Angin wafer will have read the book in order to
play the role of Jonathan Bland, the Decider.
Requirement: One Traveller in the group must
have a wafer jack and neural link.
Equipment: One Angin wafer.
Mission: After one of the Travellers installs the
Angin wafer, he becomes Jonathan Bland for the
duration of the patron encounter and subsequent
adventure. Bland will go through his standard
operating procedure, first asking the group,
‘Who is senior?’ and then proceeding to conduct
the operation, applying Rules 1–6 of the Agent
Standing Orders, as described in Agent of the
Imperium. Lt. Tence informs him that a group
of insurgents has allegedly infiltrated the proxy
government of Rorpa Din, which is administered
offworld by the government of Traa. While the

organisation of the insurgents is unknown, it is
believed they have obtained nuclear weapons
that they intend to use to attack either against
Rorpa Din itself or some of the most populous
asteroids of the Traa system. Lt. Tence had
a cell of agents monitoring the insurgents’
activities and they found out what was going
on. Unfortunately, he has lost contact with
the members of his cell and fears the worst.
Because there is a perceived threat to a
world of the Imperium and no viable Imperial
authority present, Lt. Tence opted to use the
Angin wafer to find out what he should do next.
Reward: Cr100000 per Traveller and possible
future agent assignments for the group.
Item

TL

Kg

Cost

Angin Wafer

15

—

—

The Angin wafer is, by all appearances,
designed for insertion into a standard wafer
jack. However, once inserted, the mind of
the user is taken over by a Decider agent,
one of several coded personalities based on
a previously living servant of the Imperium
named Jonathan Bland. The Traveller is under
Bland’s control as long as the wafer is in place.

E

R

