THE NOBILITY
There are three ways to become a member of the
Imperial nobility. The first is simply the passage of
noble patent through heredity, the second comes from
something good happening – an honour grant – and
the third implies that something bad has occurred,
resulting in revocation of title and subsequent
reinstatement or reassignment.

The most common passage of noble title occurs
through heredity. While there are no assurances that
the offspring of an effective and honourable noble will
serve with the same level of distinction, hereditary
passage of title provides stability, especially given the
immense breadth of the Imperium. Noble titles are
usually passed on to the firstborn heir, sometimes with
preference for the firstborn male or female but there
are no rules that govern this and nobles may ultimately
decide for themselves whom among their heirs receives
the patent. Many nobles have more than one title
and liberally distribute them among their heirs, which
can cause discord if there are no established rules of
heredity in place.
Honour nobles are given their titles as a reward for
achievements, including military victories, success in
business or accomplishments in academia. Titles for
honour nobles include knight, baronet, baron and, on
rare occasions, marquis. Noble patents for knights,
barons and marquises are granted by the Emperor but
baronets are traditionally granted only by archdukes.
Noble patents are granted twice per year, once on
Holiday (the first day of the year) and again on the
Emperor’s birthday. Most honour patents do not lead
to enfeoffment (land acquisition). The title of marquis
is an exception as it typically includes a fief but
landless marquises are not unknown. When a fief is not
immediately granted, a marquis patent typically implies
that one may follow. Indeed, a march – the name of a
land grant given to a marquis – is often dangled as an
enticement for further good service.
Bad behaviour among the peerage is not unknown and
can result in the suspension or revocation of a noble
patent by the Emperor or the Moot. However, for the
sake of stability, wayward nobles or at least their heirs
are often reinstated later. Although nobles swear fealty
and a pledge of honour to the Emperor, transgressions
do occur from time-to-time; treason, kidnapping,

extortion and other crimes are common cause for
patent revocation. The Imperial feudal system is
intended to prevent such things from happening
but not every archduke watches their dukes like a
hawk, nor does every duke keep a close eye on their
counts and so forth. The temptation to defy Imperial
law or the dictates of one’s superiors is apparently
too great to resist for some among the noble ranks.
There are times when such resistance is justified.
For example, a count may refuse to follow the orders
of an incompetent duke and actually pursue the
revocation of his superior through various channels.
History has shown that such bids are rarely successful
unless incontrovertible evidence of incompetence or
other malfeasance is provided. The system favours
hierarchical order and stability and the Moot does not
tolerate insubordination lightly.
The highest rate of revocation is at the knight level
but all manner of titles have been stripped including
that of duke. Revocation is not levied lightly and often
preceded by a suspension, especially when a lesser
violation has occurred. Suspensions can last years
or even decades, depending on the seriousness of
the infraction and follows when the noble in question
refuses to make amends or shows no remorse for the
actions that caused the suspension. A contrite noble
can usually get their title back at the Emperor’s mercy.
Even if there is a lack of contrition on the part of the
offender, if the remainder of their family continues
to serve the Imperium in good will, reinstatement
often follows and the patent is reassigned to a more
cooperative member of the family. This is most likely
to occur when the family in question has a great deal
of power. For example, it is difficult for the Emperor to
deny a family that also chairs a megacorporation or has
flag-rank naval officers.
There are times when the revoked noble and their
family are so steeped in corruption or dishonour
that the Emperor or the Moot has no choice but to
permanently revoke the patent. In this case, the patent
is reassigned to a noble of the next tier, resulting in a
promotion to the vacant rank. While this is rare, when
it does happen, contention for the patent can be quite
fierce and the Imperial Navy may be called upon to
ensure a peaceful transition of power.

45

