the greatest sculptor in all of the Core may have been
granted an honour barony as a reward for his great
works, some of which even adorn the Hall of Wisdom
in the Grand Palace of Arbellatra. At court, this noble,
despite all of his grand achievements, is considered
to be below a ranked baron whose family has held the
middling world of Siduka for generations. Heredity,
patent longevity and enfeoffment always outrank
honour achievements, no matter how lofty.
Some rank nobles have higher status than other rank
nobles as well, based on the concept of precedence.
Precedence indicates the length of time that a noble
family has held a patent. The older the patent, the
greater the prestige. Loyal noble families who have
maintained good standing with the Emperor may have
held a patent for generations or even centuries. Holding
such a patent confers great responsibilities. Rank noble
patents almost universally include a fief, which may be
anywhere from a few hundred square kilometres on
a single world to a whole planet, multiple planets, an
entire subsector and so on.
Merely holding land is not enough to maintain prestige
when one’s family holds a patent of high precedence.
This is where the concept of high nobility comes into
play. The great noble families carry a responsibility of
service to the Imperium and typically hold positions
within the bureaucracy, diplomatic roles, judicial
positions and business or military leadership roles.
Political roles are not out of the question but generally
speaking, governance is left to individual worlds.

THE MOOT

The Moot have essentially one power; to dissolve the
Imperium. This responsibility is not taken lightly but has
been entertained from time-to-time over the course of
Imperial history. During the Civil War, the chaotic reign
of Cleon III and other times of crisis, members of the
Moot threatened to use the power of dissolution. In
practice, use of this power brings the opposed sides

Although dissolution is the Moot’s only actual ability,
this does not mean that it is the only thing the nobility
discusses within the chambers of the Moot Spire.
All manner of subjects pertaining to the Imperium
are discussed and high-ranking members of the
Moot frequently meet with and advise the Emperor.
While the Emperor is the only executive authority
in the Imperium, he takes the advice of the Moot
seriously. The Emperor is not all-knowing and cannot
be expected to be clued into everything that is
happening in his empire. He is given daily briefs about
events happening throughout the Imperium but such
information is often factual, unemotional and lacks
context. For accurate, more nuanced information, he
must rely upon his nobles, each of whom can give him
a detailed account about what is actually happening in
each of the Imperium’s sectors, right down to events
on individual worlds if need be. The de facto leader of
the Moot is the Chancellor, a high noble drawn from
its ranks whom the Emperor feels he can trust. The
Chancellorship is a much sought-after position and is
usually a lifetime appointment.
The Moot Spire is a 1.75 kilometre tall structure located
a mere 4.25 kilometre from the Emperor’s palace.
Symbolically, the peak of the spire is allowed to rise
above the crown of the Grand Palace except on one
day; when a new Emperor is appointed. On that day,
the subterranean gravitic compensators raise the
altitude of the place so that its crown is 100m above
the peak of the Moot Spire, indicating the ‘Emperor
Ascendant’. More information about the Moot Spire is
provided in the description of Capital on page 155.

ORDERS OF KNIGHTHOOD

Among the most lively institutions within the nobility are
its many orders of knighthood. Upon achieving the rank
of knight, recipients of the title are granted membership
in one of the Imperium’s dozens of orders. The most
common orders are those of each domain: The Order
of Antares, the Order of Gateway, the Order of Sol, the
Order of Sylea and the Order of Vland. Assignment to
each of these orders is conferred by the Archduke of
each domain. The Domain of Deneb does not have an
order of its own because it has no Archduke. However,
the knights of this frontier region have done what they
can to make up for that by establishing several private
orders, some of which are quite exclusive.

The Nobility

The high nobility serve the Imperium by sending
representatives to the Moot, the highest bureaucratic
body of the nobility in the Imperium. Members of the
Moot are all nobles ranked baron or higher, although
many send proxies to represent them. The noble
families are encouraged to send representatives from
their respective families, which most do, but some
appoint a third party. Those who truly want to wield
power either attend in person or send the heir to their
noble patent.

together to compromise but in theory it could actually
result in the breakup of the Imperium should things get
bad enough. It is a powerful but dangerous tool and its
usage is not to be taken lightly.

47

