The role of the noble is to maintain an aloof presence,
be a caretaker for the Emperor but not one who
interferes in the daily governance of worlds other than
to ensure that the flow of trade is unimpeded and
citizens do not violate Imperial law. Should the latter
occur, the noble has little direct power to influence
a preferable outcome. While some nobles maintain
household troops – some of whom are so well geared
that they could indeed take over a small planet – the
primary recourse of the noble is to call upon the
diplomatic corps or, if necessary, the Imperial military to
resolve conflicts.

NOBLESSE OBLIGE

The primary responsibility of the Imperial nobility is
to serve as an adhesive that keeps worlds together.
Nobles are expected to exhibit loyalty to the Emperor
with honour as their guiding principle. Keeping the
whole thing together requires an extensive bureaucracy
and the nobility are the lattice upon which this is built.

The nobility must often walk a fine line. A noble who
takes sides or gets involved too early in a conflict runs
the risk of becoming intrusive or, worse, autocratic. On
the other hand, if a noble waits too long to intercede
on behalf of the Imperium and things get out of hand,
thereby requiring the involvement of the Imperial Navy
or establishing military rule on one or more planets, the
peerage and perhaps even the Emperor himself may
question whether or not the noble could have done
something earlier in the crisis.
Many nobles take a rather technocratic approach,
using data collected by the x-boat network, high-tech
surveillance equipment and reports collected from
subordinate members of the peerage and the orders
of knighthood. Others take a more hands-on approach
to find the pulse of the worlds of their fiefs, travelling
from system-to-system, intermixing with the people
and relying on intuition more than impersonal computer
algorithms. There is no right or wrong way to go about
the business of managing the worlds of the Imperium.
The proof is in the pudding. All the Emperor wants are
results. How a rank noble manages their worlds is of
little importance as long as the outcome is satisfactory.
All that matters is the continued stability and progress
of the Imperium.

The Nobility

There are, of course, circumstances in which nobles do
take a role in government. When civilian governments
collapse, are in a state of transition or the world simply
has so few inhabitants that there is little need for a
complex governmental structure, members of the nobility
may be called upon to lead. Most who do so take only
an interim role with the provision that should the civilian
inhabitants of the world eventually strive for self-rule, the
noble shall step aside and let them form the government
of their choice. When this happens, there is usually a
peaceful transition but there have been a few incidents
in which nobles have been reluctant to concede power.
This can occur for a number of reasons: the noble is
using the land for resource extraction or other forms
of wealth generation and does not want to risk local
interference; the new government-in-waiting has bad
relations with the noble or possibly even the Imperium at
large; or the noble in question simply enjoys the power
of rulership and does not want to give it up. Regardless
of the reason, Imperial law is clear: civilian governments
should be given the right of self-determination and
any fiction that dictates otherwise must ultimately be
removed. Like so many Imperial laws, the rules are left
vague in order to prevent the Emperor from being bound
by precedent but nobles who resist this tradition do so at
their peril and that of their noble patent. Nobles reluctant
to give up power have found themselves on the wrong
side of an Imperial Marines invasion whereupon their
regime is put down in cursory fashion and rule is granted
to the locals.

To some extent the nobility are the watchdogs of
the Emperor. Imperial law has a few fully defined
tenets and a broad array of traditions that the nobility
must interpret and enforce. Most Imperial laws
are deliberately vague to prevent them from being
subjected to precedent and to keep local governments
from designing loopholes to evade them. The Imperium
is a large polity and legal arguments cannot easily be
conducted across its broad expanse. For example, it
is broadly known that impeding free trade is a violation
of Imperial law. When the government of a world takes
issue with the trade practices of a neighbouring world
and uses its planetary navy to create a blockade or
enforce an embargo upon the offending world, the
local nobility must ascertain whether or not free trade
is ultimately being impeded or served. More often than
not, the task of the nobility is to do absolutely nothing.
The Imperium tries to avoid becoming involved in local
affairs unless they threaten to spill over into the greater
interstellar community.

49

