THE IMPERIAL FAMILY

The Emperor and his immediate family sit atop the
noble peerage, laying claim to thousands of oaths of
fealty. In 1105, Emperor Strephon Aella Alkhalikoi sits
upon the Iridium Throne. He is attended by his wife, the
Empress Iolanthe and daughter, the Crown Princess
Ciencia Iphegenia.
Each member of the Imperial Family is dedicated to
their roles as servants of the Imperium and despite
divergent interests, have managed to find common
ground in their respective works. The Emperor is
preoccupied with the preservation and consolidation
of the Imperium and has recently taken an interest
in its security as well. The Empress has become an
advocate for the cultural diversity of the Imperium,
which on its surface would seem to be opposed to her
husband’s efforts to bring its people closer together.
In fact, the two work quite well hand in hand, with the
Emperor taking the role of wise but heavy-handed ruler
when necessary, while his wife assures the cultures
of the realm that all have a place in its advancement.
Meanwhile, the bright Crown Princess has become the
patron of the IISS, spending a great deal of her time
visiting its bases, promoting its services and ensuring
that the best technology and resources are made
available to its personnel. Ciencia Iphegenia spends
much of her time away from Capital in the Reference
system, where she studies at the University of
Aadkhien and works closely with the scouts’ top brass.
Following the death of his father, Emperor Strephon
was crowned the 43rd Emperor of the Third Imperium
on 014-1071 at the tender age of 21. As the oldest
child of Paulo and Elbet Alkhalikoi, Strephon was
groomed for the role since birth. Being prepared to rule
the most powerful human empire ever created shortly
after reaching adulthood is a tall order for anyone but
Strephon managed it surprisingly well, exhibiting grace
and aplomb at every turn.

SPECIES

GENDER

AGE

—

Male

56

TRAITS

—

STR

7

DEX

6

END

8

SKILLS

INT

10 (13) Admin 4, Art (visual media)
2, Carouse 1, Electronics
EDU
11
(remote ops) 1, Language
SOC
17
(Vilani) 1, Leadership 3,
Persuade 1, Pilot (small
craft) 2, Science (genetics)
1, Science (history) 1,
Science (robotics) 1,
Seafarer (ocean ships) 1,
Seafarer (sail) 1

EQUIPMENT

Imperial raiment, iridium crown
and sceptre

PERSONAL
AUGMENTATION

Cognitive Augmentation (INT+3),
Enhanced Vision, Neural Comm,
Neural Link, Wafer Jack

The Nobility

The first great challenge of Strephon’s reign was the
Fourth Frontier War. The war, conducted entirely within
the confines of the Spinward Marches, was over in a
mere 16 months. The Imperium made modest territorial
gains, which Strephon leveraged to portray himself as
a capable and victorious war-time leader. The war also
marked the beginning of a long friendship between
Strephon and Duke Norris of Regina. 'The war exposed
the vulnerability of the Domain of Deneb. The Emperor
recognises that the Imperium must be better prepared
for inevitable future Frontier Wars. His reputation and
standing depends upon it.

EMPEROR STREPHON AELLA ALKHALIKOI

51

