the Amec Protectorate, the League of Antares and
the Luriani Cultural Association. Locally, she travels
amongst the Sylean Worlds frequently, partaking in
many ceremonies and festivals that celebrate Sylean
heritage. While Iolanthe has no Sylean blood to speak
of, as Empress of an Imperium that owes a great debt
to the Syleans, she feels it is her responsibility and
great honour to support and foster their culture.
The Empress has been quiet so far on whether or not
she supports the notion of a Chanestin cultural region.
The Chanestin worlds are a source of internecine
strife in the Core, so she is careful not to stir the pot
by advocating one way or the other. She does express
great admiration for the historical achievements of
the Chanestin people and actively engages in fundraising activities to preserve their unique and ancient
architectural monuments, some of which are now
nearly 3,000 years old.
As the daughter of Emperor Strephon and Empress
Iolanthe, Ciencia Iphegenia is the Grand Princess of
the Imperium. As heir to the Iridium Throne, Ciencia
has been educated from birth to eventually assume the
mantle of authority, much like her father did before her.
She shares her mother’s keen intellect and has been
imbued with a strong sense of duty to the Imperium by
her father.

PRINCESS CIENCIA IPHEGENIA
SPECIES

GENDER

AGE

—

Female

16

TRAITS

—

STR

6

INT

DEX

11

EDU

END

7

SOC

SKILLS

12(15) Astrogation 0, Gun Combat
0, Mechanic 0, Pilot 0,
9
Science (astronomy) 1,
16
Science (astrophysics) 1,
Science (planetology) 1,
Survival 0, Vacc Suit 0

EQUIPMENT

Imperial Raiment and Gold Tiara

PERSONAL
AUGMENTATION

Cognitive Augmentation (INT+3),
Neural Comm, Neural Link,
Wafer Jack

The Nobility

Ciencia developed a remarkable interest in the
sciences early in childhood, memorising all of the
constellations and component stars visible from Capital
by the age of five. Her aptitudes in the realms of the
space sciences have many historians likening her
to her ancestor, Arbellatra Alkhalikoi, who became a
naval captain at the age of 16. After graduating from
the prestigious Karbiili School on Capital at the age of
10, Ciencia joined the Scout Service and completed
basic training at the age of 12. She has since become
the leading patron of the IISS and travels frequently to
Core scout bases and their operational headquarters
at Reference where she also attends courses at the
University of Aadkhien. Whether or not she becomes
the ‘Arbellatra of the Scout Service’ remains to be seen
but there is ample reason to believe she will have an
illustrious career with the IISS, possibly following it up
with a stint at one or more of the Imperial Research
Stations before she eventually sits upon the throne.

53

