T

IMPERIAL WARRANTS

Imperial warrants are instructions printed on physical
or encrypted electronic Imperial stationery from the
Emperor, an archduke or a duke and given to trusted
agents of the Imperium. These instructions endow the
recipient with the will of the Emperor or high nobility
and supercede all other powers. Warrants typically
assign a mission of great importance and are often
issued in times of crisis when going through official
channels is not considered to be a viable option.
Emperor Strephon has been known to use Imperial
Warrants on occasion, often invoking the assistance
clause of Imperial Edict 97 in the process.

IMPERIAL EDICT 97

The Nobility

Imperial Edict 97 is the 34-page document that
enables the use of Imperial warrants. Its most
dramatic clause instructs the recipient to assist the
bearer of an Imperial warrant with all the power that
one can bring to bear.

54

Item

TL

Kg

Cost

Imperial Stationery

15

—

—

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Used by the Imperial family to send messages, make
appointments and to issue commands, Imperial
stationery is presented in physical and electronic
format. Its physical form is infused with subatomic
particles that may be read by official scanning
devices, which are extremely difficult to forge. The
electronic version of the stationery is encrypted
with TL15 computer technology and is equally hard
to replicate. Reception of a message on Imperial
stationery is akin to the spoken word of the Emperor
and is considered to be a high honour.
Notable and famous correspondence on Imperial
stationery has found its way into the antiquities
market and many pieces are owned by private
collectors, some of which are on display at various
museums in Imperial space. The value of such
pieces varies immensely depending on their age,
the significance of events described and from whom
they were issued. Some of the pieces issued by
Empress Arbellatra have been sold at auction for
millions of Credits.
Synthesising Imperial stationery and forging a
message from the Emperor: Impossible (16+)
Deception check (1D days, INT). Oppose with
an Electronics (computers) check to confirm its
authenticity. Note that forging Imperial stationery is a
high crime punishable by death.

R

