CORPORATIONS AND MEGACORPORATIONS
Doing business in the Imperium can be highly
profitable. With a few aberrations, its history has been
one long steady climb to wealth and prosperity. Built
upon the twin pillars of free trade and self-defence,
with little in the way of laws or regulations to guide
the actions of individual worlds or the companies that
do business on them, the environment is ideal for
competition. The few regulatory agencies that do exist
are there primarily to ensure that corporations do not
violate Imperial law or sovereignty.
Most corporations of the Imperium are restricted to a
single world or small number of worlds within a few
parsecs of each other. Very successful corporations
can dominate the market in a large expanse of a sector
or sometimes the entire sector. Only a precious few
corporations can be said to be pan-Imperial. These are
known as the megacorporations.
Megacorporations are truly massive in scope, with
offices, factories, research-and-development facilities
and administration centres spread throughout Imperial
space and often beyond its borders. Most are run like
any other company, including corporate officers, boards
of directors and multiple levels of management. The
main difference is that these companies cover such a
broad area that top executives are only responsible for
strategic decisions and long-term planning with the bulk
of day-to-day decisions made by regional managers
who are empowered at the level of a chief executive

officer at smaller corporations. The distance between
branch offices and the time required for communication
necessitates this level of autonomy.
Megacorporate operations are so diverse and
widespread that subsidiaries may find themselves
inadvertently competing with each other. Sometimes
this is even desirable if doing so adversely affects a
competitor in another market. Megacorporations are
exorbitantly wealthy, with capital and assets distributed
throughout Imperial space. Most are simply too large to
be traded on a single exchange; therefore, their stock
is divided into regional financial centres with overall
value published on an intermittent basis, limited by the
speed of interstellar communications. Data is carried
in encrypted storage blocks on the x-boat network but
most of the megacorporations maintain courier fleets to
carry more sensitive data.
The oldest megacorporations are the three dominant
Vilani bureaux: Makhidkarun, Sharurshid and Naasirka.
In the Ziru Sirka era, the bureaux were responsible
for the governance of vast regions of space. Naasirka
governed its spinward sectors, Sharurshid the trailing
sectors and Makhidkarun dominated the coreward
region of the empire. The central region and various
tributaries were run by a mix of the three along with
smaller contenders. After the fall of the Ziru Sirka, the
bureaux were gradually transformed into bona fide
megacorporations, each with a massive sphere of
influence and accumulated wealth.

55

