The Nobility

T

58

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Megacorporation

Business

Delgado Trading, LIC

The youngest of the megacorporations, Delgado excels in several businesses,
including mining, intellectual property management, antiquities trading and
auctioning, and most recently the toy industry. Founded 997.

General Products, LIC

Heavy machinery, starships and small craft manufacturing of adequate quality at
low prices. Built from a series of mergers in 620–622.

Gesellschaft feur
Sternschiffbau AG
(GSbAG)

High-end starship manufacturing. Big break came when they got the contract
to build Sylean Federation Naval ships in -334. Eventually bought out Zhunastu
Industries. Primary supplier of starships to the Imperial family and the Imperial
Navy. Claims to have been founded in -2438.

Hortalez et Cie, LIC

Investment banking and insurance. Owns significant shares in many other
megacorporations. Founded 221 by Lucienne Hortalez.

Instellarms, LIC

Manufacturer and retailer of military equipment. Primary supplier to mercenary
units throughout the coreward Imperium. Founded 626 by Axel Murdoch.

Ling Standard Products

Mining, manufacture of starships, small craft, vehicles, electronics, computers,
software and small arms. Minority stakes in banking, insurance and other
interests. Founding date indeterminate.

Makhidkarun

Communications technology and entertainment products with a wide array of
offerings at various Tech Levels. The firm maintains a less profitable but highly
regarded fine foods division that specialises in fine cuisine, wines and delicacies.
Founded during Ziru Sirka era.

Naasirka

Information technology, data storage, software, computers, robots and other
electronic devices. Primary supplier of communications, data storage and
software for the Imperial X-Boat Network. Founded during Ziru Sirka era.

Schunamann un Sohn,
LIC (SuSAG)

Originally a manufacturer of psionics drugs, SuSAG branched out into
pharmaceuticals, medical and surgical products, industrial chemicals, chemical
and bacteriological weapons, and geneered organisms for industrial and
agricultural applications. Built upon the shell of a bankrupt Sylean corporation in
252 by Gustav Schunamann.

Sharurshid

Trade and speculation. Leading exporter of rare Terran wines and spirits. Founded
during Ziru Sirka era.

Sternmetal Horizons, LIC

Mining, manufacture of power-generation systems and food synthesis equipment.
Founding date indeterminate.

Tukera Lines, LIC

Interstellar passenger and freight transportation along the x-boat routes. Virtual
monopoly on long-distance travel in some sectors. Officially founded during the era
of the Sylean Federation but Tukera family claims the firm is significantly older.

Zirunkariish

Investment banking and insurance. One of the largest underwriters in the
Imperium, focusing on trusts, not other megacorporations. Founded by the
Shiishuginsa family in -425. Antiama Shiishuginsa married Emperor Zhakirov in
679, establishing ties between the Imperial family and the megacorporation.

R

