HISTORY OF THE THIRD IMPERIUM
The Third Imperium is the self-appointed successor of
two previous empires that existed thousands of years
ago. The first of these was the Vilani Grand Empire of
the Stars or Ziru Sirka as they called it in their native
language. With their homeworld and capital at Vland,
the Ziru Sirka became the largest interstellar empire
in history. The Vilani were descended from humans
who were originally taken from Terra approximately
300,000 years ago by an alien race who are now
called the Ancients. The Ancients mysteriously
disappeared from the galactic scene but the Vilani
lived on and discovered jump drive technology in
-9235, nearly seven millennia before their Terran
counterparts. They engaged in a long, largely
unopposed expansion into the stars, first exploring
and trading, and then consolidating and conquering
the sophonts they encountered. Vilani culture adhered
to a strict caste system that focused on tradition,
conservatism and the cautious use of technology. The
Ziru Sirka reached its apex in approximately -3500
when it was composed of 15,000 star systems spread
across 27 sectors of space.
After thousands of years, the Vilani had begun to
struggle with the management of their vast empire
and it was in decline by -3000. They had divided
it among agencies called Bureaux, each of which
promulgated the Vilani caste system and methods
of government. The fact that the Vilani had only
achieved jump-2 technology meant that travel and
communication was slow and ponderous. By -2500

the Vilani could no longer secure their frontier from
the barbarian states beyond their borders, including
the Vargr to coreward and the Terrans to rimward.
They first encountered Terran explorers in -2422 at
a remote mining outpost on Barnard, a mere two
parsecs from Terra. The first meetings between the
Vilani and Terrans were peaceful. The Vilani had
already encountered and integrated many human
Minor Races during the expansion of their empire
and they assumed the Terrans were simply another
such race. However, first contact was a monumental
affair for the Terrans, who had never encountered
extra-terrestrial life before and were especially
shocked when they encountered other humans with
subtle physical differences.
A mere 23 years after the first meeting between
the Terrans and Vilani, the first of a series of wars
broke out between them that became known as the
Interstellar Wars. After realising the massive size and
industrial base of their enemy, the Terrans engaged
in a programme of technological development and
population expansion. Despite the immensity and
breadth of the Vilani Imperium, the Terrans soon
discovered that they faced a decaying empire, one
with little hope of standing up to a motivated, rapidly
advancing opponent. Unlike the Vilani, the Terrans
had no qualms about technology. In fact, it became
an existential imperative for the Terrans to advance
as quickly as possible in order to oppose the massive
Vilani Imperium.

59

