T

History of the Third Imperium

The Interstellar Wars were a mixed affair. The
Terrans encountered pockets of strong resistance as
they branched out into Vilani territory but they also
discovered just how decayed and unstable the Ziru
Sirka had become, especially on its rimward frontier.
Many Vilani worlds willingly submitted to Terran
authority; some were even eager to join them. Others
looked upon the Terrans as interlopers or invaders
but were not given sufficient resources by the central
government to fight back against Terran aggression.
The Terrans worked their way through Vilani space,
fighting when they had to and annexing worlds when
they did not. After 200 years, the depleted Ziru Sirka
surrendered to the Terrans and the Second Imperium
was born. The Terrans referred to this empire as The
Rule of Man.

60

The Terrans were accustomed to democratic
government but it soon became clear that they would
have to change their thinking when it came to the
administration of a widespread interstellar empire.
The commander-in-chief of Terran military forces,
Admiral Hiroshi Estigarribia, broke with Terran High
Command and took personal control of the Empire.
Rather than letting it be run from Terra with all its
politics and rivalries, Hiroshi moved the capital to
Hub (now called Kaggushus) in the Massilia sector.
When announcing this to the empire in a speech in
High Vilani, Hiroshi introduced himself and his people
for the first time as the ‘Solomani’. After 200 years of
expansion, the invaders were no longer strictly ‘Terran’
anymore. Generations had been born on conquered
and colonised worlds. Many were newly made clones
or the descendants of clones who had been mass
produced in an effort to achieve greater parity with the
Vilani. The Terrans had also uplifted many species
native to their homeworld in a desperate effort to fill
vacant roles in their military and on their starships.
The word ‘Solomani’ reflected their origin in the Sol
system but was inclusive of those who had not been
born on Terra itself. Although Hiroshi never declared
himself Emperor, his son accepted the title and was
crowned Emperor Hiroshi II, posthumously declaring
his father to have been Hiroshi I.
The Rule of Man was a tumultuous time. The Terran
Navy had spread out far and wide to absorb the
entirety of the Ziru Sirka. While officers of flag rank
were tasked with governing the most prestigious
worlds, junior officers were often left in charge of

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

backwaters and remote outposts. The Terrans and
Vilani began to intermix and new societies developed
that featured elements of both cultures. Over the
course of their expansion, the Solomani came into
contact with numerous human subspecies, all of
whom had also been transplanted to various worlds
by the Ancients. They adopted the collective name
Humaniti to encompass all human races that had
been found.
The Vilani managed their empire through ancient
and established tradition, and the arrival of the
Solomani with their new ideas and concepts of
personal freedom destroyed those traditions. Without
that reliance on the old ways, the Solomani had no
ability to manage such an enormous empire and the
Rule of Man collapsed in less than five centuries, a
mere blink of an eye in the long history of Humaniti.
Historians cite -1776 as the beginning of the end
when the Central Treasury on Hub refused to
honour a monetary issue from the branch treasury
of Antares. This caused a general collapse of the
financial system and the government’s ability to make
or control policy. The last claimant to the throne of
the Rule of Man made their capital on Sylea in the
Core sector.
The onset of what became known as the Long Night
brought about a decline in interstellar trade, diplomacy
and communication. This resulted in a sharp decline in
technology on many worlds and populations that could
not be maintained without a constant flow of supplies
either emigrated to worlds that could sustain them or
simply died off. Solitary worlds and small polities of a few
worlds were scattered throughout Charted Space with
huge expanses of barren star systems between them.
Most worlds lost the capacity to build jump drives and
became isolated islands in the vast reaches of space.
Citizens of many worlds lived their entire lives without
the ability to reach out to neighbouring stars, some of
which were only a parsec away. The Long Night was
also a dangerous time. Pirates and reavers roamed
space, preying upon defenceless worlds and attacking
the few remaining starships that dared to travel between
the stars. Over a 1,000 years passed before the lights of
interstellar civilisation began to re-emerge. The brightest
of these lights shone on Sylea, the world that was the
last vestige of the previous empire. Even as darkness
descended, Sylea had established itself as the last world
of the Rule of Man. When the curtain finally began to lift,
it was Sylea that once again led the way.

R

