THE THREE IMPERIUMS

In reality, there has only ever been a Third
Imperium. Its predecessors, the Ziru Sirka and Rule
of Man were never referred to as ‘imperiums’ during
the eras in which they existed but using the terms
First, Second and Third Imperium simplifies the
terminology and makes for a convenient narrative.
The First Imperium was the Ziru Sirka or ‘Grand
Empire of the Stars’ of the Vilani. After the Terrans
defeated the Vilani in the Interstellar Wars, the
victorious successor state has been given several
names over the course of history. Terran Admiral
Hiroshi Estigarribia declared it to be the Rule of
Man, which was meant to emphasise the common
heritage of Humaniti whether they be of Solomani,
Vilani or other origin. Many academics still use the
term since it is indeed the title that the conquerors
gave to themselves, adding validity to the old adage
that ‘History is told by the victors’.
Over time, this term was politicised and Rule of
Man became the Solomani-supremacist name
of choice. Extremists among them attempted to
instil a revisionist history in which the name was
not in fact intended to establish unity between
the various human subspecies but to convey the
superiority of the conquerors. There have been

rallies and demonstrations in Solomani space that
rather unrealistically clamour for the reinstatement
of the Rule of Man based on specious arguments
that the Solomani-dominated state was never
officially dissolved.
The disparaging term Ramshackle Empire was
invented during the Long Night, replacing the Rule of
Man for those who blamed the empire for ushering
in the fall of interstellar civilisation. For those who
wish neither to celebrate nor denigrate the short-lived
human empire, the neutral term Second Imperium
was adopted in reference to the fact that it was the
successor to the nominal First Imperium.
In more recent centuries, Solomani rabble
rousing has caused an academic schism of sorts,
resulting in the adoption of Ramshackle Empire
as the go-to for many academics in Imperial
space. While this derisive term does little to
fully convey the events that occurred during the
pre-Long Night era, it does get the point across
that Solomani rule was often authoritarian and
unwelcome. History has not shined a kind light on
this brief era and usage of the term Ramshackle
Empire has gained steam as a result. In modern
times one finds all three terms used, often
resulting in heated debate.

History of the Third Imperium
61

