When the Long Night descended upon Sylea, the
world had an eclectic mix of ethnicities. Sylea was
one of many worlds in Charted Space to host a
human Minor Race (for more about the Syleans,
see Sylean Travellers on page 171). Vilani colonists
had settled and intermixed with the Syleans starting
in approximately -9100. The Syleans were largely
ignored and marginalised by the Vilani. After
thousands of years of intermixing, there were few
pureblood Syleans remaining but some isolated
communities had maintained complete genetic purity.
Vilani culture had come to dominate the world and
oppress its indigenous population during the era of
the Ziru Sirka but Syleans still engaged in traditional
cultural activities and practiced their own religions,
often in secret. The arrival of the Solomani during
the Rule of Man heralded a revival of Sylean culture.
The Solomani elevated Syleans to positions of power
on their homeworld after thousands of years of
oppression. Unbeknownst to the Solomani, this would
pave the way for great things to come. After the Long
Night began, the revival of Sylean culture took many
centuries to fully flower but eventually became a key
component in the rise of the Sylean Federation and its
successor state, the Third Imperium.

space. Undeterred, the Syleans sent more missions
to Vland and, with careful diplomacy, established a
trade corridor with the Vilani in -480. Travel between
Sylea and Vland was perilous during this era. The
route was riddled with craven pirates, dead worlds and
xenophobic remnant civilisations. Even so, it gave the
Syleans confidence that they might one day rebuild
some semblance of interstellar civilisation.

By -900, Sylea was one of a handful of worlds that
had regained some semblance of pre-Long Night
technology. The Syleans had reacquired fusion
power and ascended to TL9. With a small number of
starships, they began to reach out to star systems
around them in an effort to restore diplomatic
relations, communication and most importantly, trade.
Sylea was run by a majority-Solomani monarchy
during much of the Long Night, but by -650 the
people threw off the yoke of authoritarian rule. Under
pressure from its feudal nobility, Queen Rowena
abdicated the throne. The monarchy was replaced
by the Sylean Grand Senate and a president in the
executive role.

Up to this point, Sylean scout and naval fleets were
a ragtag bunch of starships, cobbled together by
fledgling manufacturing firms. The ship-building firm
Gesellschaft feur Sternschiffbau AG – abbreviated as
GSbAG or ‘Gas Bag’ as it is popularly known – was
financed by a group of wealthy senators and quickly
rose to the top of the ship construction industry.
GSbAG’s contract to build Federation Navy ships in
-334 cemented its position, making it a near monopoly.
Sylea’s rapidly advancing industrial concerns carried
them to Tech Level 11. Its starships acquired jump-2
capability, extending the Federation’s reach. Sylean
scouts discovered that their growing empire was
not alone in the Core sector when they visited the
Heraldia system in -301 and encountered ships
from the Interstellar Confederacy. The Syleans
desperately wanted access to the spinward trade
routes, but the Interstellar Confederacy was not
prepared to willingly give them up or share them.
The two empires engaged in occasional skirmishes
and wars for three centuries before the Confederacy
ultimately fell to Sylean forces.

History of the Third Imperium

Sylean scouts began to travel to a growing circle of
star systems. By -500, the Sylean Federation had
come to include 18 systems. After much debate, the
Grand Senate determined it was time to reach out to
other pocket empires as well. Dozens of expeditions
were formed, the most ambitious of which made it to
far-off Vland in -495. Vland had also begun to travel
to neighbouring systems and did not take kindly to the
Sylean intruders, initially expelling them from Vilani

As the Sylean Federation grew, senators from frontier
worlds pressed for continued expansion. These
worlds enjoyed the benefits of being members of
the Federation but were exposed to the dangers of
uncivilised space just beyond its borders. In -384,
this caused a rift in the Grand Senate, creating two
factions: the Democrats and the Expansionists. The
former wanted to preserve and cultivate what Sylea
had created thus far and the latter wanted to continue
to build upon it, expanding ever outward to worlds
with which contact had been lost during the Long
Night. By the mid -350s a third faction developed:
the Industrialists, who sought a more equitable
distribution of the Federation’s growing wealth. Things
were changing rapidly and the Grand Senate and its
president struggled to keep up with the pace.

63

