T

THE INTERSTELLAR

CONFEDERACY

In the Bunkeria and Cemplas subsectors of Core,
there were a string of worlds known collectively as
the Great Spiral that managed to survive the Long
Night relatively intact. Not every world along this
string had made it through unscathed but over time,
outposts and small starports were built on ‘gap
worlds’ so that eventually they had a serviceable
jump-1 main established.
In -684, a politician from Sketola by the name of Rom
Debeshuut united the worlds of the Great Spiral into
the Interstellar Confederacy. The primary goal of
this union was to restore interstellar trade, provide
for mutual self-defence and preserve the technology
of the four or five systems that had achieved TL12.
The leaders of the Interstellar Confederacy ‘met as
equals’ in a Grand Senate on Sketola.

History of the Third Imperium

In -623, after expanding to 32 star systems, the
Interstellar Confederacy abruptly stopped accepting
new members. The senators determined this was
the maximum number that they could manage
and that taking on more systems would have a
deleterious effect on their ability to retain the Tech
Levels that they had so assiduously built.

64

The Interstellar Confederacy first encountered
scouts from the Sylean Federation in -301.
Relations started poorly and the two quickly became
enemies. Initially, the conflicts between them were
limited to commerce raiding but by -260, they
engaged in open war. In one of the war’s more
famous battles, a Sylean naval squadron routed
the Confederacy Navy at Velpare in -258 but failed
to occupy the planet after an ill-advised and poorly
executed siege. The Confederacy was humbled by
the defeat but the inability of the Syleans to take the
world itself prevented them from gaining a strong
foothold in the region.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In -239 the Confederacy suffered a civil war. Rebel
forces from its spinward arm conquered the capital
at Sketola and held it for two years before loyalists
were able to take it back. They tried to recover
from this self-inflicted wound but the damage was
done. A broken and demoralised Confederacy
faced a rapidly expanding Sylean Federation. The
Confederacy was ultimately done in by internal
divisions and an unwillingness to expand its
membership when it had the opportunity to do so.
Loyalist forces resisted the Syleans for another
century but it became a matter of when, not if, the
Confederacy would eventually collapse. Intense
battles were fought on Velpare and Heraldia in
-201 but after both fell to the Syleans, resistance
crumbled on many more of their worlds in the
following decades. By -100, the Sylean Federation
had acquired all the systems to trailing of Ye-lu.
Finally, in the year -1, the exhausted forces of the
remaining Confederacy worlds surrendered to the
Sylean Federation. That it took almost another
century after the fall of Velpare for the Confederacy
to completely collapse is a testament to its then
superior technology and the obstinacy of its worlds.
The artefacts and culture of the Interstellar
Confederacy live on in current times. The former
Confederacy worlds of Bunkeria and Cemplas
proudly celebrate their history and its famous
personalities. Perhaps the greatest living remnant
of the Confederacy is the Achenaar Antilles Line, a
merchant firm founded on F’rnow in -567 by Rualto
Achenaar and Jofan Antilles. In modern times, the
corporation remains a highly successful sector-wide
line, which has fared well against larger competitors.

R

