T

THE CHANESTIN KINGDOM

When the Long Night fell, travel between star
systems came to a halt throughout most of civilised
space. Many worlds died out if they could not
sustain themselves without the benefit of interstellar
trade. Self-sufficient worlds were often able to
survive. With its placid K-type main sequence
primary star, standard atmosphere and bountiful
resources, Keshi was one such place.
Keshi was a rich agricultural world during the era
of the Ziru Sirka and was heavily colonised by
the Solomani after the Interstellar Wars. After the
Rule of Man collapsed, Keshi retained a fleet of
starships and huge stockpiles of materiel, which
helped it to fare better than its neighbours. In the
year -1300, Keshi was ruled by King Brzeszcze,
who used his aging fleet of starships to conquer
the systems around him. After several generations,
the Chanestin Kingdom had amassed an empire
of 25 worlds, all of which were within five parsecs
of Keshi. Once conquered, these worlds were not
excessively oppressed unless they resisted the
authority of the King.

History of the Third Imperium

Even as it grew increasingly incapable of
maintaining its fleet of starships, the Chanestin
Kingdom managed to govern its empire for over
1,000 years before being contacted by outsiders.
Unlike the Interstellar Confederacy, the Chanestin
people were not plagued by divisiveness
but likewise they were not blessed with the
Confederacy’s advanced technology.

66

The Sylean Federation established contact with
Chanestin Kingdom border worlds in -108 and
followed up by sending a flotilla of merchant ships
in -107 to establish trade ties. The ruling monarch,
Queen Nayarit, accepted the cargoes that the
merchants brought with them but had the entire
expedition executed for inciting its people with
seditious ideas. The Sylean Federation responded
by sending warships and a war broke out between
the two polities that lasted nearly a century.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

By the time the Syleans had contacted them,
the highest available technology on the
Chanestin worlds was TL9 and they had been
reduced to a single operating jump-capable
starship. Unfortunately for the Syleans, they had
inadvertently given the Chanestin the tools needed
to revive their ailing navy. The Chanestin kept
the starships of the merchants whom they had
executed, armed the stolen ships and put them into
service as their own. They also reverse engineered
the technology to begin the arduous task of building
a new fleet of warships. The Chanestin Kingdom
recognised the Sylean Federation for the existential
threat that it was and invested every iota of their
energy into the preservation of their millenniumold empire. Within a few short years, they had the
makings of a fleet and went on the offensive against
the Syleans.
After exhausting themselves in a war that lasted 63
years, the two sides signed an armistice in -44 to
prevent further bloodshed but by -25, the Kingdom
realised that their technology was becoming
increasingly inferior to that of the Syleans and they
grew desperate. Chanestin naval forces launched a
series of deep attacks into Sylean space, including
one that made it all the way to Shudushaam. In
-3, the Sylean Federation had resolved to call
upon its full military might in the conflict and finally
defeated the Chanestin Kingdom two years after the
declaration of the Third Imperium.
The feudal structure of the Chanestin Kingdom was
nullified and cooperative members of its nobility
were offered Imperial noble patents to placate them.
The once-proud Kingdom was integrated into the
Imperium and so began a painful, centuries-long
period of cultural and economic decline for their
once-proud worlds.

R

