T

While the conflict with the Interstellar Confederacy
might best have been described as a war of attrition,
the war with the Chanestin Kingdom presented a very
different challenge for the Syleans. The Chanestin
were much more unified. The Syleans learned valuable
lessons in both conflicts, which would fuel their later
military endeavours.
Despite the problems encountered in the Core, the
Sylean Federation did not stand by idly patrolling their
own sector during this era. Federation scouts were
sent in all directions to re-establish contact with other
worlds and pocket empires that had weathered the
Long Night. During the last century of Federation rule,
its scouts had extended Sylea’s reach 30–40 parsecs
in all directions. The corridor to Vland, now called the
Annililik Run, was a long and dangerous route, used
by only the boldest of traders. Piracy plagued all of
the major trade routes, a problem which would soon
expose the Sylean Federation’s weaknesses.

History of the Third Imperium

While it had yet to develop a supporting bureaucracy
or official structure, the prototype of the modern scout
service began to surface in approximately -100;
previously, most scouting was performed by freelancers
and entrepreneurial ventures. Scout crews were
given contracts by the Federation government and
various corporations for the information they obtained.

68

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Some crews focused strictly on data collection;
surveying territory, updating maps and recontacting
lost civilisations. Others worked the commercial side,
seeking natural resources to exploit, trade partners for
Sylean corporations and scoping out future industrial
sites. The two sides would not come together until
a few decades later in -29 when President Cleon
Zhunastu declared the formation of the Sylean
Federation Scout Service (SFSS). The service was
divided into four branches: Administration, Technical
Services, Operations and Exploration. The SFSS was
the precursor of the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service,
which was formed in year 0 of the Third Imperium.
The SFSS had a short tenure before being replaced
by the IISS but the timing could not have been better
for its replacement. The marriage of exploratory and
mercantile services was not a happy one. The SFSS
was plagued by corruption and scandal for most of
its three decades. Too many special interests had
gotten involved in the planning of missions. Far too
often the data and security needs of the Federation
took a back seat to the desires of corporations with
deep pockets. Missions of a purely exploratory nature
were postponed if there were possible trade ties to be
had in a different region. When the IISS was formed,
commercial interests were struck from the Scout
Service’s list of responsibilities and handed over to
individual corporations.

R

