The Day They Arrived

When the first ship appeared in the sky, the people of Port
Khanuum could tell there was something different about
it. Our world, Kirbarus, had been raided by pirates from
somewhere in Massilia many times but the fishermen
setting sail could tell at first glance that this was no pirate
ship. It was sleek, colourful, well-maintained and shiny.
Pirate ships were always barely holding up, with their dull,
scarred hulls and engines sputtering as they came in to
exact their toll from us. With few defensive weapons of
our own, the laser turrets on a pirate ship could be applied
with devastating results like lightning bolts hurled down
upon us from a spiteful god.
No, this ship was different. It landed on the flat
plains just outside the city near the marsh, taking
care to avoid damaging crops in the fields. The crew
wore uniforms and came out unarmed, filter masks
protecting them from our atmospheric taint. They
walked the two kilometres from the field to the town
centre where they asked to speak to Port Khanuum’s
leaders. They brought gifts with them: portable fusion
power cells that could provide enough energy for an
entire province. We had returned to using fossil fuels
with a few nuclear fission plants on the coast of the
southern continent. Only in textbooks did our young
students learn about a forgotten age of fusion power
and the spacecraft that once connected worlds with
their ability to jump from star-to-star. We were among
the lucky worlds with a semi-breathable atmosphere,
genetically engineered crops and enough people to
work the land. Most of our resources were applied to
filtering out contaminants in our water and eliminating
pests that threatened our crops.

Cleon Zhunastu

As the Federation extended its reach to 30 or so
parsecs in all directions from Sylea, acquiring an
increasing number of member systems, the strain of
interstellar government began to show. Just as it was

The Sylean Federation had achieved a uniform TL11
and its industries were rapidly pushing towards TL12.
Jump-2 was the standard for Sylean military ships with a
smattering of jump-3 prototype spacecraft in operation.
Decisions made by the Grand Senate were carried by
fast couriers but by the time their instructions reached the
frontier, circumstances had often changed. This made
dealing with the piracy crisis increasingly difficult. The
Federation was built upon the concept of establishing
free trade between member worlds but rampant piracy
threatened to destroy everything they had built. The
Federation had built an impressive navy but there simply
were not enough squadrons to defend worlds that were
more than a few parsecs from Sylea. Arguments between
the Democrats and Expansionists paralysed the Grand
Senate. Several presidents were deposed for their failure
to handle the problem. It was clear that something had to
be done but no one in a position of leadership was willing
to make big changes until Cleon Zhunastu came along.
Cleon was born to a noble father, Grand Duke Felix
Zhunastu of Sylea and his Vilani consort, Denkhumi.
The Zhunastu family were exorbitantly wealthy,
having achieved great success in the fields of energy
production and spacecraft manufacturing. Cleon’s
Uncle Aldin was an ingenious engineer in the field
of fusion energy systems. Fusion power plants had
existed before the Long Night but most worlds had
lost the ability to manufacture them. Aldin’s patented
designs improved upon existing fusion technology and
were implemented in a line of products called Fusion
Plus (F+). F+ plants were small, tidy and energy
efficient, easily transportable for sale and installation
in distant star systems.
As the Grand Duke of Sylea, Felix Zhunastu dreamed
that the Sylean Federation would one day become
an enormous trade empire, one which would create
wealth for all of its citizens. Felix’s hands were tied
by politics during his reign but he could foresee a
time when that would change. He groomed Cleon
to be ready for that day and set plans in motion that
would ensure his legacy. Felix manipulated the Grand
Senate to grant the president broad and expansive
powers and used the Zhunastu family fortune to
acquire several key corporations that he merged into a
single corporate entity: Zhunastu Industries.

History of the Third Imperium

Before too long we were reunited with the star
systems around us, our agricultural goods shipped
from world-to-world, helping to revive struggling
populations and resurrecting those whose colonies
had completely died out after the Rule of Man ended.
The profits we made from selling produce and other
wares were used to purchase freighters of our own.
We felt like we were waking up from a 1,000-year-long
dream. Soon we proudly called ourselves members
of the Sylean Federation. Our world was forever
changed the day they arrived.

for the Federation’s much larger predecessors, it was
becoming clear that centralised governments were poor
at managing large expanses of space. The limiting factor
was the reach of the jump drive, just as it had always
been. Information was limited to the speed of jump,
which made it impossible to govern from any distance
beyond a few parsecs.

69

