T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SECRETS OF THE ZHUNASTU DYNASTY

The ageless story of the Zhunastu dynasty has transcended into the realm of myth. There is little doubt that
the family was a talented bunch but some aspects of their story are shrouded in mystery.
They became the masters of the Sylean Federation, yet had little if any Sylean blood in their heritage.
They used technology to overcome their rivals, yet for a time they were not even the most technologically
advanced empire in their own sector. The Zhunastus had an uncanny ability to overcome every obstacle
in their path with a clear and methodical approach. They were undeterred by setbacks and always
seemed prepared with a contingency plan when things went awry. Many historians believe that they used
two tools to overcome challenges that got in their way: psychohistory and psionics.
Felix Zhunastu had long been a disciple of psychohistory, the use of mathematics to predict the mass
movements and future history of Humaniti. The larger the sampling, the better psychohistory works, or
so goes the conventional wisdom. Vilani psychohistorians predicted the long, drawn-out fall of the Ziru
Sirka. Solomani psychohistorians saw the demise of the Rule of Man coming like a high-speed freight
train. These were enormous empires with populations in the trillions. The Sylean Federation was a tiny
polity in comparison, yet its leaders increasingly leaned on psychohistory as their empire grew in size
and population. This was at least one of the reasons for the Syleans’ eagerness to reunite with Vland. By
reconnecting with the capital of the old empire, the Syleans increased their sample size immensely, making
psychohistorical predictions much more accurate. By the time Cleon took the role of Grand Duke upon his
father’s death, the Federation and its allies had achieved a certain critical mass, providing an increasing
level of clarity and accuracy in their psychohistorical predictions.

History of the Third Imperium

While there is no direct proof, most believe that the Zhunastus also employed psions in key roles of their
political and corporate organisations. There is little reason to believe the Zhunastus themselves had psionic
talent but both Sylea and Rhylea (then called Udmum) hosted reputable psionic clubs and university
programmes. The top psionic talents of the era were recruited by the noble families to serve as aides and
spies. There were laws preventing unlawful telepathic and clairvoyant intrusion, which necessitated the
development of counter-psionics: psions trained to detect and prosecute violations. Psionics gave the
nobility and corporate community unprecedented advantages over their competition. Rumour has it that the
Zhunastus even had a precog on their payroll, a rare talent indeed.

70

In -32 Cleon returned from a long journey during
which he had visited Antares, Amdukan and finally
Vland, where he stayed for over a year to study at the
Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin (AAB), the Vilani
‘repository of all knowledge’. In a public statement,
Cleon expressed admiration for the world’s history
and customs. While studying at the AAB, he published
a dissertation: ‘The Vilani Imperative: Lessons of the
Shudusham Concords’. Within the Core sector in the
year -112, terrorists detonated a bomb on a courier
robot that killed the premier of Fornol and several
Sylean nobles while aboard the Empire’s Banner,
a Sylean warship. The incident nearly caused a

civil war. Cleon’s scholarly paper hypothesised that
the Shudusham Concords, which limited the use of
weaponry on robots, were evidence of the enduring
Vilani legacy in the modern Core. Cautious and limited
use of technology were tenets of Vilani philosophy and
Cleon won his hosts over with a spirited statement of
their shared heritage.
Felix Zhunastu died in -30, leaving a young but wisebeyond-his-years Cleon as his heir. Cleon assumed the
mantle of Grand Duke, president of the Grand Senate
and chairman of Zhunastu Industries at the tender age
of 27. He did not waste time making his mark.

R

