Cleon kept a close eye on the family business but
appointed his Uncle Aldin as chief executive officer to
perform the day-to-day management of the company.
During Cleon’s first year as president of the Grand
Senate, the Syleans began to actively recruit more
worlds to the Federation. The recruitment drive was
anchored by Vland, which committed its worlds.
Stronger diplomatic and trade ties between Sylea and
Vland had been developing for centuries and Cleon’s
presence and scholarly work at the AAB was the
decisive factor in the Vilani decision to join. In a public
statement on Sylea, Cleon expressed his gratitude for
their trust and vowed to leave Vilani social institutions
intact. The union of the Sylean and Vilani polities was a
coup of major proportions. It conveyed the inevitability
of the growing Sylean trade federation, served as
a valuable recruiting tool and gave the citizens of
the Federation the sense that they were a part of
something much bigger than themselves.

Adguu Uun, the next he would be off to Nimluin to be
present for Zhunastu Industries’ latest factory opening
and then back to Capital to discuss the future of the
Federation. Historical records of the era make him
appear to be a madman but when one steps back to
look at the big picture, it was almost as if Cleon already
knew what would happen in the year 0, the year that
the Third Imperium was founded.

Not content to sit on his laurels, Cleon became the
renaissance man of his times, engaging in politics,
business and diplomacy with equal verve. One of his
first acts was to reform the Scout Service. While the
agency had been one of the linchpins of the expansion
effort, noble and corporate influence had corrupted
it. Instead of extending the reach of the Federation, it
had become a tool of the wealthy. High-ranking nobles
and business leaders were effectively selecting the
Scout Service’s missions and sanctioning only those
which served their narrow business interests. While
developing trade routes was certainly a key goal,
Cleon felt that the Scout Service must be focused
on survey and exploration for their own sake and set
up a bureaucracy to give the agency independence.
This would be the first of many reforms that helped
the Scout Service become the institution that it is in
modern times.

Cleon spent the last years of the Sylean Federation
building and consolidating power. He established
allegiances with trusted corporate executives and
members of the nobility. The SFSS continued to
extend the Federation’s reach and Zhunastu Industries
peddled F+ technology to member and satellite worlds
in an effort to draw them into the fold. On Sylea,
those who worked with Cleon saw their fortunes
grow immensely. GSbAG, which had long held a
favourable relationship with the Zhunastus, became
the Federation’s primary military contractor, building
warships for the growing navy and freighters for its
expanding merchant lines.

Cleon’s actions during the pre-Imperial era were
often maddening to his peers. One week he would be
working on diplomatic relations with the monarch of

Year 0

History of the Third Imperium

A big test for the growing Sylean Federation was
solving the piracy crisis. Piracy had become an
epidemic, hindering the growth of the Federation and
threatening its membership drive. Zhunastu Industries
built a squadron of light carriers and sublight gunships,
fitted them with F+ plants and sent them to the frontier.
They struck a major blow at the Azimuth system where
they destroyed a particularly notorious pirate. While the
destruction of one pirate ship did not end the crisis, it
was a major public relations victory for the Federation.
It gave the frontier worlds the confidence that the
Federation was going to help them.

Obviously, Cleon was just one man and there was
only so much he could do. Over time, he learned
to delegate authority to women and men whom
he deemed trustworthy, dutiful and honourable,
characteristics that he looked for in others throughout
his life. Cleon had a vision that he was striving towards
with single-minded focus and sought others who
shared his dream to build a great and lasting empire.

71

