T

Cleon broke ground on the first Grand Palace of the
Imperium. The project was completed in two years. It
was an ugly building that looked more like a fortress
than a stately manor but this was intentional. Its
pyramidal structure and few entrances were designed
to make it easier to defend should it come under
siege. The palace and its Emperor would have to
survive the tumultuous early years of a new empire.
Cleon was leery of leaks and initially coy about the
exact nature of his grand plans. Only a select group of
close confidantes knew the whole picture. The Sylean
Federation was going big. Imperial scouts had by this
time encountered dozens of pocket empires. Cleon
foresaw a future in which there was a place for all of
them under the umbrella of a new and powerful empire,
one which transcended all that had come before.

History of the Third Imperium

Cleon’s final act as president and Grand Duke of
Sylea was to issue the Warrant for the Restoration
of the Imperium. This document declared that the
Sylean Federation and its associated worlds would
transform into the Third Imperium on the first day
of the following year. The warrant claimed that the
Third Imperium would one day include all worlds
that had once been under the Ziru Sirka and Rule of
Man. Precedence, tradition and history would guide
the hand of this new Imperium in its quest to restore
civilisation to Charted Space.

72

The Warrant for Restoration did not meet with universal
approval. For 650 years, the power structure of the
Sylean Federation had calcified. Not everyone was
so keen to give it up. Thirteen of the worlds closest
to Sylea initially rejected the warrant. Cleon and his
closest supporters worked vehemently to gain their
support and within a few months had brought five of the
13 back into the fold. Shortly after the founding of the
Third Imperium three of these worlds flip-flopped once
again and nullified their Imperial memberships. These
systems became known as the Wayward Worlds.
Fortunately for Cleon he still had the votes in the Grand
Senate to carry out his plan, if only barely. On the last
day of the 650th year of the Sylean Federation, the
Grand Senate ratified the Warrant for Restoration and
declared Cleon the first Emperor of the Third Imperium.
He was crowned Cleon I on the first day of Imperial
year 0 and Sylea was renamed Capital. No longer was
it just the provincial capital of a pocket empire. Capital
aspired to become the centre of the greatest interstellar
empire in human history.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Emperor of the Third Imperium was given
sweeping powers, far more than the leader of Sylea’s
Grand Senate or its president and a feudal nobility was
established that would become an extension of the
Emperor’s will. Members of the nobility were granted
patents that established their titles. Many would be
granted fiefs to administer. Nobles would serve at the
Emperor’s leisure and could have their patents revoked
if they did not perform to expectations.
The Grand Senate was dissolved and replaced by the
Imperial Moot, a deliberative body composed of the
appointed nobles. The Moot was given two powers: the
ability to confirm the ascendance of a new Emperor
and dissolve the Imperium. Many of its members
were former Senators. Others were corporate officers,
military leaders and other esteemed individuals who
proved their loyalty and commitment to the new
Imperium. Provisional fiefs were assigned to the new
nobility. These would be altered and consolidated in the
months and years ahead as the Imperium took shape.
The Moot convened on Capital in state offices
separate from the Imperial Grand Palace. In addition
to its primary powers, the Moot served in an advisory
role to the Emperor. A senior member of the Moot
was selected to serve as Chancellor. This position
had special privileges and access to the Emperor.
A primary facet of the new Imperium was that its
high nobles – primarily its dukes and eventually its
archdukes – would have broad powers and oversight
over their respective regions. The previous human
empires fell because they became too large to
manage. The Third Imperium sought to address
this shortcoming by sharing the responsibility with a
trusted hierarchy of noble bureaucrats.
The Imperial Guard was formed to protect the Emperor
on Capital. At first its only regiment was the Sylean
Guard but many more regiments would be added over
time. The Federation Navy became the Imperial Navy,
whose role was to defend the space between worlds
and enforce Imperial law. The Imperial Marines were
established, the powerful shipborne assault force
of the navy. Articles were drafted for the creation of
an Imperial Army as well. This would require a sea
change in military thinking. Previously the armies of
Federation worlds were independent entities. The
armies of Imperial worlds would retain some degree of
independence but they would engage in joint training
exercises, observe certain uniform and equipment
standards and share strategic objectives.

R

