The SFSS became the Imperial Interstellar Scout
Service (IISS). The organisation was still in flux in
the early years of Imperial rule. With corporate and
noble influences effectively rooted out, the IISS
became a neutral arm of the Imperial government.
The branches that were most corrupted – Operations
and Administration – were defunded, leaving the less
political Exploration and Technical Services branches
intact but now bereft of an administrative umbrella
and therefore responsible for their own administration.
The new IISS had essentially cut off its diseased
appendages, leaving only those in place whose motives
were deemed to be pure. Members of Operations
and Administration who had acquitted themselves
honourably were given new roles in the pared down,
more efficient service. These changes had an extreme
effect on scout culture. A flat, less stratified structure
began to take shape, one in which even the lowliest
scout had a voice. The flat structure of the Scout
Service would soon be reflected in its fleet of starships
as well. The venerable Iiken-class scout/courier was
adopted as the ship of choice, a small, durable, multifaceted and most of all economical spacecraft that
could be operated by a light crew (one individual if
necessary) and which could perform most of the jobs
the scouts needed done: communications, survey and
exploration. The wedge-shaped design of the ship had
withstood the test of time, dating back to the era of the
Ziru Sirka. The modern Type-S scout/courier uses a
nearly identical form factor with subtle changes.

The Fledgling Imperium

Having such lofty aspirations is commendable but
actually achieving them another thing altogether.
Cleon’s method was to kill them with kindness. After the
residents of each world were contacted – by the scouts
or otherwise – Imperial merchants would attempt to
trade with them in order to show the value that the
Imperium could bring to their lives. If they consented to
join, they were promised the whole package: free trade,
defence by the Imperial Navy, assignment of a noble to
serve as an intermediary and so on. If they balked, the

The early years of the nascent empire were marked
by the second great expansion and an attempt to
consolidate territory already held. The effort to draw
the more reluctant worlds into the fold would require
an impressive value proposition, visible evidence that
joining the Imperium was worthwhile. Like any new
venture, it would take time to show a profit. Planetary
rulers had to understand that there might not be a
big payoff during their lifetimes. The reward would
be to see the explosive growth of the empire and a
future made bright by burgeoning trade. Cleon spent
most of his time on Capital during this era, justifying
the existence of the Imperium to a divided Moot and
carefully cultivating his political relationships. The
success of this monumental venture was by no means
a certainty at this point. The forces stacked against
it were considerable, some of which were banal and
others more nefarious. Worlds that had been bypassed
and yet committed to the Imperium represented a
subtle if persistent threat.
A constant battle that Cleon had to fight with the
Imperial court was a tendency towards conservatism
in the worlds close to Capital. As the space between
the Core worlds became increasingly safe and its trade
routes more lucrative, there was less of a desire to
take chances lest they ‘tip the apple cart’. The only way
Cleon could combat this tendency was by extending
Imperial borders ever outward.
By the year 20, the Imperium encompassed a good
portion of the Antares, Dagudashaag, Ilelish and
Massilia sectors, adding to the wide swath of stars
it had already acquired along the path to Vland. The
membership of the Moot was expanded to incorporate
the new barons, marquises, counts and dukes
assigned to these territories. Local administrative
control was given to new members of the peerage,
providing an acid test for the Emperor’s distributed
management model.
Pirates and reavers still roamed much of Imperial
space, especially along the frontier, but regional control
of naval forces made it possible to squelch malcontents
quickly and efficiently. It would be an exaggeration to
say that trade flourished in the frontiers immediately
thereafter but it became increasingly apparent that

History of the Third Imperium

At the dawn of the Third Imperium, its territory included
most of the Core and Vland sectors with islands of
independence throughout but Cleon had set his sights
on a far greater empire. Despite the fact that upon its
birth the Imperium was effectively at war – the conflict
with the Chanestin Kingdom was in its final throes and
the rebellious Santry Cluster was being pacified by the
Imperial Marines – it never wavered from its designs
upon all of the territory formerly held by the Ziru Sirka
and Rule of Man.

Imperium would simply move on to the next world and
leave the ungrateful ones in the dust. Cleon believed
that most worlds would join up and those that did not
would eventually come to their senses. What he did not
count on was how much patience it would require to
see this process through.

73

