T

it would over time. They had only to look at the Core
worlds to see the proof. The Wayward Worlds and
their ilk began to see the signs of progress passing
them by at jump speed. Traders who had established
connections to the Imperium’s growing system of
links and branches were the first to reap the benefits
of Imperial expansion. Many of the worlds that had
resisted joining thus far came to their senses and
applied for membership.

History of the Third Imperium

With a growing number of worlds joining the Imperium,
Emperor Cleon declared in the year 17 that Imperial
citizenship would be granted to all sophonts within
Imperial borders, not just humans. There is some
debate among academics about the timing of Cleon’s
declaration. Scouts had begun to make contact with
worlds as far as the Ley and Gateway sectors, and
there were rumours of missions to the uncharted
territories across the Great Rift and recontact with
Mother Terra to rimward. With so many distant regions
being integrated into the Imperium, most historians
believe the declaration was simply a hearty welcome
to any and all alien species who were being asked
to join. To a great extent this was certainly true.
However, there is a movement among academia who
also believe it was a harbinger of what was to come.
As an avid practitioner of psychohistory, Cleon may
well have foreseen the difficulties that would arise
with the incorporation of Antares, in part because the
culture of the region included Vargr. Cleon could have
made the Declaration of 17 with the Vargr of Antares
in mind, whom he hoped to recruit along with their
human cohorts.

74

While Cleon never did take a wife, he did produce
an heir with his consort, Medi Ahn Thon, a woman of
mostly Sylean heritage whose family were wealthy
industrialists from Zimiin (now Knabbib). His son, who
would one day take the crown as Cleon II, was born
in the year 21 and was Cleon’s only offspring. Unlike
his father Felix before him, Cleon the elder did little
to apprentice his son for the leadership role that he
would eventually be asked to take. He left the boy’s
education in the hands of his tutors and university
professors. Bereft of a strong father figure, young
Cleon turned to Artemsus Lentuli, Chancellor of the
Moot and his father’s most trusted advisor. Artemsus
was the son of Djugashvili Lentuli, who had served
as Cleon’s intelligence chief in the first years of the
Imperium. The younger Lentuli had already lived an

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

eventful life and was famous for helping to fight off a
pirate attack on one of his family’s ships at the age of
17. He went on to have a distinguished career in the
newly created Imperial Navy, followed by a stint as a
diplomat for the Moot.
As Chancellor, Artemsus sought to integrate the
worlds that had thus far resisted incorporation into the
Imperium. He coined the term ‘Quarantine Worlds’,
likening them to viruses or parasites, which must either
be treated or cut off from the interstellar community of
the Imperium. Quarantine Worlds reaped the benefits
of membership in the Imperium without paying taxes or
contributing to its defence. Artemsus claimed that the
Warrant for the Restoration of the Imperium justified his
actions. He employed the Imperial bureaucracy (a.k.a.,
the nobility) as his agents to draw Quarantine Worlds
into the fold with diplomacy where possible but with
force if necessary.
With the dream of the Third Imperium in only its
nascent stages, Cleon I died in the year 53. His son
was crowned Cleon II but quickly decided that he was
unfit for the role. After an ignominious year on the
throne, during which he became known as ‘Cleon the
Weak’, he abdicated without an heir, expressing his
preference that his highly capable Chancellor should
become Emperor. The brief but eventful Zhunastu
Dynasty had come to an end – for now – to be
succeeded by the first of the Lentuli Line. As for young
Cleon, he continued to serve the Imperium faithfully,
spending a great deal of time on the frontier where he
helped Artemsus to integrate Quarantine Worlds.

The Pacification Campaigns and
the Spinward Frontier

Once crowned, Artemsus adopted a decidedly more
aggressive approach to realising the Warrant for
Restoration. He initiated the Pacification Campaigns, a
massive effort to integrate the Quarantine Worlds and
all of the worlds that had been held by the previous
empires. In preparation, Artemsus divided the Imperium
into five domains: Sylea, Antares, Vland, Ilelish and
Gateway. In each domain except Sylea, he appointed
an archduke from the ranks of the subsector dukes.
The archduke of the Domain of Sylea was also the
Emperor. Each of these archdukes was responsible for
the integration of their respective Quarantine Worlds
and inclusion of historically held regions of space. As
Archduke of Sylea, Artemsus led by example.

R

