THE PACIFICATION

CAMPAIGNS

The Pacification Campaigns were the first great test
of the Third Imperium’s approach to government. The
archdukes were given broad powers to ‘pacify’ their
worlds. Unlike the traditional approach used by the
Vilani bureaux or the chaotic management style of the
Rule of Man, Artemsus’ archdukes were given clear
guidelines and then told to get the job done. They were
not forced to wait for a central authority figure to tell
them what to do each step of the way. The archdukes’
methods met with varying results.
The guidelines that the archdukes were given
encouraged multiple levels of diplomacy before
considering the use of military force. Firstly, they were
to present the benefits of Imperial membership with the
implication that joining was not really a choice; it was
required. If there was resistance, they were to seek
out sympathetic members of the population, arm them
and encourage them to rise up in revolution. Should
the locals fail in this capacity, directed coups and
assassinations were to be considered. If all of the above
failed the full military power of the Imperium might then
be brought to bear. Ultimately the Emperor would brook
no dissent. One way or another, the Quarantine Worlds
and the regions claimed by the Warrant for Restoration
would be integrated… whether they liked it or not.

The Archduke of Gateway was exempted from the
Pacification Campaigns. While their day would
certainly come, Gateway was simply too recently
settled and unruly for any attempt at pacification to be
successful. Even so, the archduke managed to get
himself killed in battle with the Luriani, an amphibian
human Minor Race based in Ley Sector. The Luriani
were subsequently pacified but did not join the
Imperium until 202.
The Emperor had yet to appoint an Archduke of Sol
but plans to do so were in the offing. By the year 100
– about halfway through the Pacification Campaigns
– Imperial scouts were making first contact with the
worlds of the Solomani Rim. They discovered that the
sector had five powerful pocket empires: the Arcturus
Federation, the Easter Concord, the Vegan Polity, the
Dingir League and the Old Earth Union. A softer touch
would be required to draw the Solomani Rim into the
Imperium, one which Artemsus himself would devise.
Gaining the favour of such a well-established region of
space would require a longer game to be played.

THE ANTARES CAMPAIGN

Conquering the Quarantine Worlds of Lishun and
Antares was difficult due to the proximity of the Vargr
Extents. Quarantines and blockades were routinely
flouted by the Vargr who supplied resistant human
worlds with virtually whatever they needed. Whatever

History of the Third Imperium
75

