T

the Vargr could not provide from the Extents, they
obtained by pirating Imperial merchant ships and
then fenced the stolen goods at a premium on the
Quarantine Worlds. After decades of frustration, the
Imperium went to war in these sectors, conquering the
pockets of resistance in Lishun during the early 80s
but meeting with stiff resistance in Antares. With some
difficulty, the Imperial military conquered the rimward
portion of the sector including the much sought-after
Antares Cluster. Despite the territorial gains it had
made, the Antares Campaigns were considered to be
an abject failure. The inability to establish a firm grasp
on Lishun and Antares prevented the Imperium from
obtaining a beachhead from which it could conquer the
Windhorn, Meshan, Mendan and Amdukan sectors,
each of which had been partially or entirely in the
possession of the Ziru Sirka.

History of the Third Imperium

THE ILELISH CAMPAIGN

76

The Archduke of Ilelish had a remarkably easy job
to do during the Pacification Campaigns; most of the
worlds in the domain were amenable to integration.
Ilelish (the system) was the homeworld of the
Suerrat, a human Minor Race that had established
an independent empire using sublight gravitic drives
before being gifted jump technology by the Vilani.
The sector population was approximately 60 percent
Suerrat at the time of the campaigns. Ilelish had many
pocket empires of various sizes and Tech Levels that
recognised the benefits of Imperial membership. Many
of these worlds had fond historical memories of the
Rule of Man and eagerly welcomed the return of a
broad interstellar power with all the benefits it entailed.
Furthermore, Ilelish had begun to realise the threat
posed by the burgeoning Aslan Hierate to spinward
and sought the aid of the Imperial Navy to defend its
borders. Ironically, Ilelish would be the source of a
great deal of strife for the Imperium in the following
centuries but at this time they were happy to become
a part of it.

THE VILANI CAMPAIGN

Archduke Lukgirigaasa of Vland easily integrated
most of the Dagudashaag sector, much of which
already benefited from Imperial largesse. The trade
corridor developed between Sylea and Vland in the
previous centuries had already touched many of
the sector’s worlds and slowly drawn them into the

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

fold over time. Any worlds that continued to resist
Imperial authority were given simple demonstrations
of the benefits of membership followed by equally
convincing demonstrations of the military force
that could be brought to bear should they decline.
Archduke Lukgirigaasa, it appeared, was quite
good at demonstrations of force but proven to be
sorely lacking when actually called upon to use it.
The Imperium met stiff resistance in the spinward
portion of the sector and in neighbouring Gushemege
where the Lancian culture held sway. Most of the
inhabitants of this region had little knowledge of the
state of affairs outside their realm and had built a
modest interstellar empire of their own. The Lancians
resisted integration and marshalled enough forces to
rout Imperial squadrons during the Battle of Aakgar.
When word got to Artemsus, he retired Lukgirigaasa,
replacing him with the dour Archduke Im Derisumir
whose years of conflict with the Vargr on the coreward
frontier of Vland had steeled him to the realities
of war. In typical Vilani fashion, the new archduke
regrouped, reinforced his fleets and retaliated with
brutal efficiency. The Lancians were brought into the
Imperium by force. Stiff pockets of resistance were
eradicated with orbital bombardments, cleansing
many worlds of their entire populations. Despite the
extreme methods employed, the end result was the
full integration of all worlds in the domain.

THE SYLEAN CAMPAIGN

The archduke of the Domain of Sylea is also the
Emperor, so Artemsus himself was responsible for
the pacification and integration of Core, Fornast and
Delphi. As the architect of the Pacification Campaigns,
Artemsus brought the full range of Imperial powers to
bear upon these worlds with great success. Artemsus
used diplomacy wherever possible but quickly
accelerated the methods used to inciting coups d’état
and revolutions, establishing blockades, threatening
orbital bombardment and – when necessary –
invading and occupying. Core was entirely integrated
into the Third Imperium by the year 111 and significant
portions of Fornast and Delphi were acquired as well.
It was crucial to the future of the Imperium that the
Emperor’s own domain be effectively pacified and
Artemsus made certain that it was. A further goal of
the Sylean Campaign was to pacify the worlds of
Massilia but it would be centuries before that sector
was fully integrated.

R

