The Pacification Campaigns were not met with
universal praise. There were many who dissented,
some of whom were members of the Moot. The most
famous of these was Zuan Kerr, the statesman who
had almost single-handedly brought the hostile Ershur
subsector in Massilia into the Imperium by going to
its worlds, living among its people and cultivating
diplomatic ties with them. Kerr opposed the use of
force as a method of coercion, preferring instead the
peaceful approach that had been fostered by Cleon
I. Alas, Kerr died in 67, paving the way for Artemsus’
campaigns to begin. It was a testament to Kerr’s
influence that it took Artemsus another decade to win
the Moot over. However, following the violence of the
Pacification Campaigns, Kerr would again become a
pivotal figure, even posthumously, among those who
did not wish to see the Imperium take the path of a
belligerent conqueror. Kerr’s erudite pleas against
the injudicious use of violence changed the way the
Imperium approached conflicts.
While Artemsus was in the process of executing the
Pacification Campaigns, he never took his attention
from the goal of continued expansion. By any means
possible, Artemsus intended to prosecute the Warrant
for Restoration. The failure of the Antares Campaign
to integrate the coreward sectors of the First Imperium
was a public relations disaster. Fortunately for
Artemsus, he had another advantage.
Just as the Pacification Campaigns had begun, several
expeditions had made their way through the Great
Rift into Deneb and what would one day be called the
Spinward Marches. Previous attempts to gain entry to
the region via the coreward portion of Corridor met with
disaster for various reasons, not least of which were

plundering Vargr corsairs. More successful attempts
were made by crossing the Rift via Ishirdu. The Great
Rift was a vast obstacle to expansion into the region,
but innovation and persistence on the part of the
explorers made it happen. In the year 60, an expedition
funded by the megacorporation Ling Standard Products
established a colony on Mora from which dozens of
other colonial expeditions would spring.
The Emperor was eager to get the IISS involved and
sent several scout fleets across the Rift, each of which
contained 10 or more of the Scout Service’s Iiken-class
scout/couriers. Just as in the days of old, when the Ziru
Sirka was expanding its borders, these ships travelled
far and wide, collecting survey data of the entire region
that would one day become the Domain of Deneb.
To celebrate their heroic efforts, Emperor Artemsus
founded the Order of the Arrow in 62, which was only
open to distinguished members of the Scout Service.
The scouts and other intrepid explorers who crossed
the Rift discovered that Deneb and the Spinward
Marches were largely uninhabited but not all of its
worlds were virgin territory. There were several
interstellar polities already there, including the Sword
Worlds, Darrian Confederation and Zhodani Consulate.
There were records of the latter but it had been
thousands of years since they had last been contacted.
By 75, Imperial scouts, colonial expeditions and
corporate-sponsored enterprises had expanded deep
into the Marches and established a colony on Regina.
Early expeditions also discovered isolated civilisations
on many individual worlds, including dozens in the
Trojan Reach that had once been members of the
highly advanced Sindalian Empire, which had imploded
in an apocalyptic civil war during the Long Night.

History of the Third Imperium
77

