T

The stories out of Deneb were a welcome distraction
from the failures of the Antares Pacification Campaign.
If the new Imperium could not acquire all of the
sectors claimed by the Warrant of Restoration, at
least it was in the process of trailblazing a new and
largely uninhabited region of space. The Domain of
Deneb captured the imaginations of the citizens of the
Imperium. The notion that there were uncharted worlds
to spinward being made ready for expansion gave
people hope for the future.
For a time, the two narratives ran concurrently. On
one side, the Imperium was assiduously working to
reacquire all systems held by the previous empires,
however unrealistic that goal may have been. On the
other, the Imperium explored new worlds, reinventing
itself and becoming something entirely new. It was time
for things to change. Artemsus abruptly called an end
to the Pacification Campaigns in the year 120.

History of the Third Imperium

Terra Mater

78

Scarcely noticed during all the hubbub of the times,
a noble by the name of Magis Sergei haut-Devroe
completed an extensive research project on the origins
of Humaniti. One of the great mysteries of Charted
Space was the seemingly simultaneous appearance
of human species on dozens of worlds. Haut-Devroe
travelled extensively throughout the Imperium,
performing exhaustive research of the fossil records of
many worlds and examined Humaniti’s place in their
respective ecosystems. After eliminating Urunishu in
Antares as a candidate, it became clear to haut-Devroe
and his team that Terra was clearly the homeworld
of all human species. He published The Solomani
Hypothesis: The True Origin of Mankind on Kaggushus
in the Massilia sector in 102, perhaps expecting to rock
the foundations of the galaxy. Instead, his monumental
discovery was initially ignored and later met with tepid
acceptance when it was presented to the broader
audience of the Imperium in 114. To be fair, it was not
the first time Terra had been suggested as the origin
world of Humaniti. The Terrans themselves presented
convincing evidence during the Rule of Man; however,
the ubiquity of the Vilani and racial pride of the 40 or so
other human races prevented universal acceptance.
Haut-Devroe proposed that a mysterious alien race
called the Ancients took human and canine samples
from Terra in approximately -300,000, genetically
engineered many of them and seeded them among
the worlds of Charted Space. The disappearance

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

of the Ancients was a mystery to researchers who
ascertained they had destroyed themselves in an
enormous Final War, although the disposition of the
winners was never determined. Researchers theorised
they may have gone extinct or left Charted Space.
The Ancients disappeared from the galactic scene in
approximately -290,000, leaving only ruins and altered
races behind.
Despite the nonchalance with which the Solomani
Hypothesis was received, Emperor Artemsus took it
very seriously. The IISS had only recently recontacted
the empires of the Solomani Rim and it was readily
apparent that incorporating the origin sector of
Humaniti would not be accomplished by a pacification
campaign. The five pocket empires of the Solomani
Rim were each powerful in their own right with separate
navies, complex political and economic relationships
and old cultures that had weathered the Long Night
much better than most such states. Each of the four
had retained jump technology and were impeded from
expanding into the Imperial Core by the much more
severe collapse of the worlds coreward of the Rim.
There was some trepidation on Artemsus’ part that
if not handled carefully, the Solomani empires could
unite in some way before membership in the Imperium
was even offered. Many of the worlds of the new
Imperium had humans of Solomani descent and might
find membership in a competitive Solomani empire
more appealing. Artemsus spent the post-Pacification
Campaign years letting the dust settle, consolidating
commercial relationships with the newly minted
member worlds of the Imperium and reaching out
across unintegrated territory to begin the process of
finding common ground with the Solomani.
Despite acceptance of the Solomani Hypothesis being
far from universal, the influence of Solomani nobles
in the fledgling Imperium was strong. Many petitioned
Artemsus to immediately establish stronger ties with
the Solomani Rim and Terra. Artemsus felt it was far too
early to bring Terra on board. The Third Imperium was
still young and the integration of the alleged homeworld
of Humaniti might have disruptive political effects.
Artemsus died in the year 166 at the age of 183, an
impressive number for most humans but typical for the
Lentuli line. His son succeeded him and was crowned
Martin I. Artemsus had been careful not to neglect
his son as had Cleon I before him. Martin was fully
indoctrinated in his father’s philosophy and strategies
for establishing a greater Imperium, perhaps to excess.

R

