The Julian War

It must have been frustrating for Emperor Martin to
have spent his entire life being prepared for the role
of Emperor only to have his father live for 183 years.
Martin’s destiny was put on hold until he had reached
the age of 154. To put that in perspective, Martin had
more than a century after retiring from a distinguished
military career to think about what he might do as
Emperor before being allowed to actually do it. To make
matters worse, once Martin finally did pick a fight, about
a decade into his reign, he chose a nemesis who deftly
outmanoeuvred him and proved to be his superior in
just about every way.
Martin was obsessed with the failure of the Antares
Pacification Campaign. Still smarting after half a
century, he was adamant in his belief that a second
attempt would succeed where the first had failed. With
great effort and a significant expenditure of political and
military capital, Martin spurred the Archduke of Antares
to launch what became known as the Julian War.
The Julian War had been a long time coming. Julian
Menderes, the patriarch of the hallowed Menderes
Corporation, was named Regent of the Asimikigir
Confederation and rallied the disparate states of
Mendan and Amdukan into an alliance that became
known as the Julian Protectorate. These disconnected
interstellar states found common cause in their desire
to repel the Imperium. The Vargr of the region had been
slaves to humans for centuries but were given their
freedom by the progressive Asimikigir Confederation.
Rumours that the Imperium was enslaving and killing
Vargr in far-off Corridor motivated the Vargr of Antares
to fight them.

The Imperium launched its first attacks in 175,
determined to strike a demoralising blow to the Julian
Protectorate early in the conflict. The Imperial Admiralty
believed that the Protectorate would be overwhelmed
by the sheer power and destructive capabilities that
its navy brought to bear. The fleet was organised
in two columns, one of which drove towards Lasla

Just as the Imperium was prepared to resume
hostilities, Julian Protectorate and Vargr fleets launched
a two-pronged attack of their own, one of which
thrust headlong into the Antares and Lishun sectors,
lacerating the flank of the Imperial column. The other
fleet crossed the Empty Quarter Rift and struck from
behind the Imperial fleet into Antares and Ley. The Star
Legion destroyed the poorly defended naval depots in
both sectors, crippling the Imperium’s chances. The
Imperium was forced to retreat in order to defend the
gains they had paid for so dearly during the Pacification
Campaigns. With memories of the Antares Campaign
still fresh in their minds, the worlds of the Antares
Cluster revolted against the Imperium and the Star
Legion liberated them.
Emperor Martin was forced to sue for peace. The
Treaty of Antares was signed in 191, resulting in a
significant loss of territory. Powerless to do otherwise,
the Imperium granted the League of Antares
autonomous status. The Star Legion forces withdrew
from Lishun and Ley but the Imperium had lost more
than half of the Antares sector. The Imperium withdrew
from the region, defeated and demoralised.
Martin failed to anticipate the ability of the Julian
Protectorate to draw upon the resources of the Vargr
Extents and underestimated the abilities of their navy.
He also failed to understand how important charisma
is in Vargr society. Julian Menderes was a charismatic
leader, one admired by humans and Vargr alike. It
would be simplistic to say that the Vargr were also
stirred to action by millennia of mistreatment but this
was certainly also a factor. This was not the last time
the Imperium would have to deal with the Vargr but
when they did, they were determined not to repeat the
mistakes of the Julian War.

History of the Third Imperium

After the Pacification Campaigns ended, the Julian
Protectorate frustrated and delayed Imperial action
for over 50 years. The delaying action gave the
Protectorate time to build the Star Legion, a unified
defence force whose primary purpose was to fend off
the Imperium.

in Mendan and the other towards the much more
ambitious target of Asimikigir in Amdukan, the capital
of Julian Menderes’ state of origin. Within three years,
it appeared as if the Imperium had accomplished
its goals, with most of Mendan and Amdukan under
Imperial control and the Lasla system as its base of
operations. The second fleet was driving towards
Asimikigir when things took a surprising turn. A Star
Legion fleet, reinforced by squadrons from the Vargr
Extents pushed back against the Asimikigir offensive,
resulting in a period of retrenchment for both sides that
lasted until 183.

79

