T

Greener Pastures

Colonisation efforts in the Domain of Deneb saw a
significant uptick after the Imperium lost the Julian
War. If the Imperium could not have Meshan,
Mendan and Amdukan, perhaps the acquisition of
Deneb and the Spinward Marches would restore
Imperial honour and pride.

History of the Third Imperium

While Charted Space is far too broad a place
for events on one side to affect those hundreds
of parsecs away, on Capital the Emperor and
his court wanted to weave a narrative that cast
the Imperium in a favourable light. The defeated
fleets returned home to lick their wounds, rebuild
the depots of Antares and Lishun and defend the
empire from a growing list of enemies.

80

Emperor Martin I died in 195 a broken man.
He had waited a lifetime to guide the Imperium
towards its manifest destiny only to be soundly
defeated. His son was crowned Martin II the
same year and decided it was time to change
the narrative. In spite of the bloody Pacification
Campaigns and their aftermath, the Imperium
had become more unified. While the Imperial
Navy had been off making war in Antares, the
interior of the Imperium was consolidating and
its economy was improving. Cleon’s dream was
coming true despite there being a few missteps
along the way. It was time to guide the young
empire to its next phase.

Outreach and Growth

Despite the unmitigated disaster that was the Julian
War, the foundations of the Imperium were not shaken.
There were no cries for the Emperor’s head and no
discussion in the Moot about dissolving the Imperium.
In fact, quite the opposite. Trade had begun to
flourish, the piracy threat within Imperial borders was
dissipating and the Imperial Navy started to take shape
as the ubiquitous force that it is today. Capital became
secure and the wealth of the Imperial family, the
nobles of the Moot and megacorporate leaders grew
exponentially. Any feelings of malaise were quickly
swept away by wealth and security.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

After Martin II ascended to the Iridium Throne, his first
act was to approve the design for a new palace on
Capital, one which did not reflect the fortress mentality
of Cleon I. While Cleon had to fight to preserve the
fledgling empire, his successors enjoyed the benefits
of leading an Imperium that was clearly on the rise.
Martin II was a well-travelled man and, like his father
and grandfather before him, he had the longevity of
the Lentuli line. He was 142 years old when he was
crowned Emperor and would reign for 49 years. The
new palace was a grand structure with tall spires and
glistening domes that invoked the medieval castles
of Solomani fairy tales. It was supported on grav
pylons 500 metres above the Imperial Park, the most
ambitious structure of its kind to date. The Emperor
moved into the palace with great fanfare on Holiday of
the year 200 as the citizens of the Imperium celebrated
the bicentennial of Cleon’s grand experiment.
Imperial scouts and members of the diplomatic core
had by this time established relations with all five
pocket empires of the Solomani Rim. While they
were not yet ready to join the Imperium, the Arcturus
Federation, Easter Concord, Vegan Polity, Dingir
League and Old Earth Union began to trade amongst
each other, creating a wealthy microcosm of the
Imperium itself. Imperial traders and corporations
began to set up shop in the sector and established
trade routes to the remote region.
With the Solomani situation seemingly resolved, the
Imperium pre-emptively reached out to the Aslan
Hierate, signing the Peace of Dark Nebula in 212.
This treaty brought a temporary end to the Aslan
Border Wars, which had gone on for over 1,000 years,
deep into the Long Night. The treaty might have held
indefinitely if not for later incursions by colonists
from the Old Earth Union. Nevertheless, the treaty
was honoured for 90 years, bringing a much-needed
respite to the war-torn region between human and
Aslan space.
The colonies of the Spinward Marches, had grown and
expanded to include more star systems, bumping up
against and, in some cases, pushing out the previous
inhabitants. The growing importance of the region
had become clear and the Emperor was resolved
to improve access to the frontier sectors ‘behind the
Claw’. Transporting the needed materiel across the
Great Rift through the Ishirdu system had become
impractical and it was time for the Imperium to establish
a more easily traversable route. A confrontation with the
Vargr in Vland and Corridor was imminent.

R

