The Vargr Campaigns

Previous attempts to get to Deneb through Corridor
met with disaster. Scout and colonial missions into the
region were lost, presumably destroyed by the Vargr,
who had been a problem in the region even during the
reign of the Ziru Sirka. They had snapped up many
star systems in coreward Corridor, Vland and Lishun.
The Vargr are nothing if not mercurial and while they
had held the region for millennia, the dominant powers
shifted many times during the Rule of Man and the
Long Night.
Imperial Navy fleets were deployed to the border of
the Vargr Extents by Martin II in 220 without fanfare.
The initial goal was simple: carve a path through the
coreward Corridor sector and secure it. The Imperium
had learned a lot about fighting the Vargr during the
Julian War. They were highly influenced by charismatic
leaders and would quickly give up on a cause or
change sides when a leader was shown to have failed
or when a superior leader took their place. The primary
method of cutting a swath through Corridor was simply
to use naval force but the Imperium also learned to
divide and conquer the disparate Vargr polities that
occupied the region, often pitting them against each
other. When one leader lost face, Imperial forces went
for the jugular before another more apt leader could
take his place.

The initial thrust of the Vargr Campaigns was to cut a
narrow channel into Corridor along the coreward edge
of the Great Rift. Where the opportunity presented
itself, the fleet would turn slightly more to coreward and
cut off low- to medium-population Vargr factions from
their rimward holdings. The Imperial fleets were aided
by astrography and superior firepower. The Corridor
channel was bordered by the Great Rift to rimward and

Imperial Naval Intelligence (INI) had a key role in the
operation as well, assessing the political situation
between the various Vargr states present, making
contact with them and establishing allegiances when
possible. Naval officers who negotiated well and were
seen to be of ‘high charisma’ successfully recruited
many of these small polities and colonies, especially
those that were oppressed by larger Vargr states or
bands of corsairs. These Vargr served as translators
and agents for the Imperial juggernaut as it snaked
its way through the sector. Segregated Vargr worlds
were offered Imperial membership as a boon for their
cooperation under the precedent of the Proclamation
of 17. Many of their leaders eagerly accepted the offers
while others did so only reluctantly. Those who resisted
were ferreted out by the INI and imprisoned, deported
or executed, depending on the circumstances.
By 230, a serviceable – if hazardous – route had been
carved through Corridor, enabling the Imperium to
transport much-needed supplies to the colonies. In
time, the path was broadened and secured until most
of the sector was integrated. The Imperium was keen
to avoid making the mistakes they had made during
the Julian War, which had the effect of slowing things
down. The process was slow but inexorable, taking
one or two star systems at a time and then providing
incentives for Imperial citizens to repopulate vacated
worlds, expanding outward until their borders pushed
up against the larger Vargr polities. Settlements
became colonies and colonies grew to become
independent governments. While the standard
narrative of the era depicts the Imperium blasting their
way through, it was in fact also a time of peaceful
integration with receptive Vargr populations. The Vargr
are a disunified race and are quite willing to cooperate
and join forces if presented with charismatic leaders,
no matter what their species.
Corridor was not the only front. Once the sector
was secure, with many of its worlds sporting system
defence squadrons and planetary navies of their
own by the year 300, Imperial squadrons turned
their attention to Vland and Lishun to clean up Vargr
incursions and extricate belligerent polities that had
gained footholds there. The missions into these sectors
eschewed the diplomatic approach and mostly resorted
to violent conflict, sometimes with devastating results.

History of the Third Imperium

There were two opposed forces at work in the early
part of the Vargr Campaigns. The first was the bad
memories of the Imperium’s most recent wars. Martin II
desperately wanted to avoid the ignominy suffered by
his grandfather and father for their involvement in the
Pacification Campaigns and Julian War, respectively.
Second was the involvement of the Vilani. When in
possession of superior forces, the Vilani tendency was
to annihilate an opponent, scouring worlds of all life if
necessary. The fleet elements that carried out the Vargr
Campaigns were largely drawn from Vland and Lishun
because of their proximity to Corridor and the majority
of their officers and crews were pureblood Vilani. Martin
was careful to mitigate their destructive tendencies by
adding squadrons from the Core fleets.

the Windhorn Rift to coreward. There was nowhere for
the weaker Vargr forces to run, no safe haven to which
they could retreat and regroup. Fight or flight were their
only options.

81

