T

Dynastic Crisis

Upon his death in 244, Martin II left the Vargr
Campaigns only partially complete but was assured
of their success. His approach was bearing fruit and
he died confident that the Imperium would extend
into the Domain of Deneb via Corridor in due time.
Unfortunately, Martin did not leave an heir to the throne,
bringing a brief pause to the Lentuli line. The ensuing
dynastic crisis resulted in the selection of the greatgreat-great grandson of Cleon II.

History of the Third Imperium

There were concerns about his stability before the
selection was finalised but powerful members of
the Moot pushed it through and Cleon III was made
Emperor in 244. It was an unmitigated disaster. The
Emperor exhibited many sociopathic and psychopathic
behaviours, none more severe than his penchant for
murdering those who disagreed with him. Cleon III
shot, stabbed, impaled and threw members of the Moot
off the ledges of the Grand Palace if they were found
to be ‘disagreeable’. It did not take long for the Moot to
realise their error. ‘Cleon the Mad’, as he had become
known, had to be dealt with. Unfortunately, there were
no devices for addressing this unprecedented situation.
Desperate times called for desperate measures.

82

A reluctant Porfiria – herself the oldest issue of the
grandnephew of Martin II – accepted the offer of the
remaining members of the Moot (the Chancellor himself
had been murdered by Cleon and therefore could not
personally extend the offer) to ascend to the throne
by a new method: the Right of Assassination. Per the
dictates of this new convention, Porfiria killed Cleon by
her own hand. The fact that Porfiria was not a skilled
combatant is largely overlooked by modern historians.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Some claim that Cleon was mortally wounded by a
Moot-sponsored hit team, a combat veteran in service
to one of the high nobles or possibly even Porfiria’s
own bodyguard, after which Porfiria herself came onto
the scene and delivered the coup de grâce. Whatever
the case may be, the Moot approved the action and
she was made Empress Porfiria I in 245.

THE RIGHT OF ASSASSINATION

This unorthodox method of selecting a new
Emperor was devised after the selection of
Cleon III proved to be a bad one. The Moot
approved the ability to select a new Emperor
by Right of Assassination. This controversial
method – which would later cause great strife –
included three key tenets:
• The assassin must be a member of the
High Nobility.
• The assassin must kill the Emperor by
her or his own hand in the presence
of witnesses.
• The Moot must then approve the new
Emperor just as they would under
normal circumstances.
Should the last of the three tenets fail to occur,
the assassin could be tried for murder in a
court of law depending on the circumstances.

R

