The Porfirian Age

The circumstances of Porfiria’s rise to power were
unusual but she proved to be a dignified and admirable
Empress. The Porfirian Age is often understated in
history texts. She had been reluctant to take charge,
yet did so and ruled for over eight decades. There was
war but it was handled methodically and without the
bravado of the Imperium’s previous military adventures.
The era was, historically speaking, unexciting. Imperial
borders continued to expand, mostly via diplomacy.
The Imperium would – a few centuries later – become
embroiled in a Civil War. Many historians theorise that
without the stability and growth of the Porfirian Age,
the Imperial experiment may have died an early death,
becoming a mere footnote in the history of Humaniti.

The Vargr Campaigns continued successfully during
Porfiria’s reign. With a serviceable route through
Corridor, the Imperium established a strong foothold
in Deneb and the Spinward Marches, pushing out
Zhodani colonies on the spinward-coreward corner of
the sector.
In yet another flourish of the Porfirian Age, the Empress
abolished the branding restrictions that had been
applied to the Imperial Sunburst in 247. Previously,
users of the symbol were forced to depict it only in gold
on black. Imperial agencies were given permission to
alter the colour scheme as they wished so long as the
appearance of the logo itself remained the same.

There was also the matter of the Solomani Rim. As the
Imperium continued to expand its borders into Massilia,
Diaspora and the Old Expanses, it became easier to
develop long-distance trade and diplomatic ties with the
Rim. Solomani nobles in the Moot had never given up
on their desire to reunite with their ancestors. Porfiria
sent a mission to confirm haut-Devroe’s Solomani
Hypothesis in 305, nearly two full centuries after its
initial publication. The mission was well received and
the Easter Concord agreed to become an Imperial
client state. The Concord partnered with the Imperium
to develop the Star Lane, a chain of outposts that ran
from the coreward edge of the Solomani Rim to Capital
itself. The region was still infested with pirates during
this era and the fortification of the Star Lane began to
address this problem.
The Imperium had achieved a maximum Tech Level
of 13, making it the most advanced polity in Charted
Space. New technology included the jump-4 drive and
materials and life-support tech that made it possible to
settle worlds with insidious atmospheres, opening up a
bounty of new territory for development.
As the Porfirian Age came to a close, its primary
events occurred far from Capital. The spinward
colonies continued to flourish with Regina growing in
importance and becoming the capital of its subsector.
The powerful but controversial Humboldt family was
put in charge of the Vincennes subsector in Deneb,
whose capital would one day become one of the most
technologically advanced worlds in the Imperium.
Vast mineral wealth was found in the belts of Glisten
and it was discovered that the worlds of the domain
had a higher concentration of Ancients sites than had
been found in other sectors. More than 200 sites were
discovered, including the only functioning Ancients
site ever confirmed on Antiquity in Corridor. The
excitement of new discoveries on the frontier captured
the imaginations of Imperial citizens and fomented the
notion that the Imperium was a vibrant, growing polity
with a bright future.

History of the Third Imperium

Porfiria was a free thinker and employed unorthodox
methods to solve problems. Recognising that the forces
deployed to fight in the Vargr Campaigns were suffering
from combat fatigue, the Empress sent the Imperial
Guard to fight at their side. The Guard had been
expanded to include artillery and cavalry regiments
and proved highly effective in its new role, serving as a
jump division in some of the most dangerous missions
of the war. The deployment of Imperial Guard troops
had a positive effect on morale as well. The navy’s
communications department created holovideos of
their exploits, which were seen by the rank and file
everywhere. Each film included segments celebrating
the effort and contributions of other Imperial military
units as well. The Guard deployment left the Empress
vulnerable to an insurrection but this was a heady time
for the Imperium. The Moot, the peerage and indeed
billions of Imperial citizens were reaping the benefits
of Cleon’s dream. Free trade and the security of the
empire were making people rich beyond their wildest
imagination and giving them a level of stability that
neither they nor their ancestors had seen since before
the Long Night.

Porfiria was also a great advocate of the IISS and
gave the scouts the unprecedented and high-profile
task of performing the First Grand Survey of Imperial
space. The scouts were to catalogue the astrography,
planetology and demographics of the entire Third
Imperium. The previous data on the realm harkened
back to the Rule of Man so it was high time for an
update. The publication of the survey would also
serve to unite the Imperium by clearly identifying
its boundaries, people, their unique characters and
cultures, and the stars and planetary bodies within
Imperial borders.

83

