T

Upon her death in 326, Porfiria’s son Anguistus was
crowned Emperor. Anguistus was much loved by the
people. He had been born during the first year of his
mother’s reign and the public had watched him grow
up from infancy. He pledged to continue what his
mother had started. While his reign was brief for a
Lentuli Emperor, he was credited for being a wise ruler;
Anguistus’ steady hand helped to expand Imperial
borders and consolidate power, fully incorporating all
of the Ilelish, Massilia and Zarushagar sectors. Ilelish
had proven to be the most contentious of the three. The
sector had had some of the most well-developed and
resilient pocket empires to make it through the Long
Night and some of its citizens questioned the value of an
empire that merely governs the space between the stars,
leaving worlds to their own fate.

History of the Third Imperium

Despite the rising drumbeat of unrest in Ilelish, Anguistus
managed to close out the Vargr Campaigns, having
pushed out the most powerful states and establishing
garrisons on most of the worlds along the coreward
border of Corridor. Similar results were achieved in
Vland and Lishun with the Imperium either integrating or
pacifying the remaining Vargr.

84

After the death of Anguistus, his second-born son – the
first had died during childhood – was crowned Emperor
Martin III in 365. Like his father before him, Martin’s
rule was a steady one – at least in its early decades
– marked by the consolidation of power, development
of the Imperial bureaucracy, growing economies and
increasing military might. As a young adult, Martin
became keenly aware of the costs of war. He saw his
father struggle daily with the management of the Vargr
Campaigns. It was a long and costly affair but deemed
worth the price. As a student of history, he knew that the
expansionist Aslan posed a similar threat. While the asyet-unincorporated Domain of Sol served as a de facto
buffer state between the Imperium and Hierate, Martin
recognised the danger posed by this burgeoning alien
race. After learning more about Aslan customs and the
value they placed on land holds, Martin issued a formal
apology to the clans of the Hierate in 377 for trespassing
upon their lands. He then designated the Archduke of
Ilelish to serve as the Imperial signatory for the landmark
Peace of Ftahalr, signed in 380. This treaty secured a
non-aggression pact between the Aslan and Humaniti
after over 1,000 years of intermittent border wars and
established a 30-parsec buffer zone between the Hierate
and Imperium. By this time, many Aslan worlds had been
integrated into the Imperium, making their residents
Imperial citizens. As a gesture of good will between the
two species, Martin authorised the establishment of an
Aslan regiment in the Imperial Guard.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

PLAN LAZARUS

The Peace of Ftahalr established a 30-parsecwide gap between the Imperium and Aslan Hierate
but Emperor Martin and his military high command
were still concerned about the expansionist
Aslan. The acquisition of land was a biological
imperative for them and could not be controlled
with treaties. The Peace of Ftahalr put a stop to
their advancement into Solomani and Imperial
space but only a fool believed the agreement
was permanent. The Aslan had already begun
to cross the Great Rift and it did not require a
psychohistorian to see that the Aslan Hierate and
the Imperium would one day clash in the Domain
of Deneb.
The Emperor sent agents to meet with the military
command of the Archduke of Sol to design a plan
of attack against the Aslan should they ever break
the treaty. The array of strategic and diplomatic
moves was called Plan Lazarus. Unfortunately, the
Ilelish Revolt and subsequent events took priority
and Plan Lazarus was scuttled after the death
of Emperor Martin III in 456. No comprehensive
plan to deal with the Aslan threat has ever been
developed to take its place.

With the Grand Survey already under way, in 382 the
Emperor expanded the IISS mission to collect data on
all of the Major Races that bordered the Imperium. The
Scout Service was accumulating massive amounts of
information and it soon became clear that they would
need a dedicated facility to store all of the data, as well
as the samples and artefacts they had collected.
As luck would have it, the scouts made an astounding
discovery in 399. There was an old Vilani research
station on Aadkhien in the Core that contained a virtual
copy of the data contained at the AAB on Vland as
well as a cornucopia of additional data that had never
been synchronised due to the intercession of the Rule
of Man and the Long Night. They also discovered that
Aadkhien was at the nominal centre of the Imperium
and virtual centre of the galactic plane. As far as the
scouts were concerned, it was destiny. They relocated
the planet’s reclusive and xenophobic Vilani colony
to a reservation world and remade Aadkhien into

R

