a central repository of information, renaming the
world Reference. For more about Reference, see its
description in the Cadion subsector on page 198.
The timing could not have been better. The Grand
Survey was completed in 420 and over the next few
years, the entirety of its findings was collated and
stored at Reference.

I Was One of the 1,300

We docked our trader at Maaruur Highport on 108350, intending to make planetfall two days later. Plans
changed when five Imperial Navy dreadnoughts came
out of jump at the 100-diameter limit.
With 30 tons of freight bound for Khuumiam and 40
tons of speculative cargo booked, we were planning
on a big windfall. Our broker told us we had to come to
the Downport to get it. My crew and I spend most of our
time on the Sylean Main but we like to shake things up
every so often. We’d come to the Maaruur Cluster to
check it out. Maaruur itself was the crown jewel with a
high-quality starport, lots of products to move and eight
billion people living on the planet. Some were Vilani but
most were aliens called Shingans.

The Imperial Navy never told us a thing and they
blocked radio transmissions so we couldn’t find out
what was going on. After a few days, we got inspected
by a team in hazmat suits, accompanied by some
Imperial Marines. We overheard that there were 1,300
people on the Highport and no one was being let off the
planet. Obviously, I couldn’t contact my broker for the
freight or cargo but it was looking less and less like that
was going to be a thing anyway. I had the Downport’s
tightbeam coordinates but I thought better of trying
it. You just don’t mess with the navy, especially when
something serious like this was going down.

The Imperial Road

By the year 400, the trade routes of the Imperium
extended from the frontier sectors of Deneb and the
contested worlds of Antares, through the Imperial Core
and onward to the purported homeland of Humaniti
in the Solomani Rim. While the bulk of trade was
limited to the jump-1 routes in each sector, long-range
trade missions that ran nearly the entire length of the
Imperium were not unheard of. Comparisons to the
Silk Road of ancient Terra were made. The network of
trade routes that connected East Asia with Southern
Europe were likened to those that stretched from Terra
to Capital and onward to Antares, Vland and Regina.
The monumental growth of the Imperium resulted in
the creation of new megacorporations. Lucien Hortalez
founded Hortalez et Cie, a banking and insurance firm
that underwrote large-scale development projects and
colonial enterprises. Hortalez and other companies like
it increased the efficiency of the expansion. Before the
existence of such companies, there was little oversight
for colonial expeditions. Professional underwriters
became a mitigating force, funding projects that had
the best chances for success and denying the rest as
too risky. These corporations became an uncelebrated
engine for Imperial expansion.
Schunamann und Sohn AG (SuSAG) was founded
in 252, primarily to manufacture psionic drugs. The
corporation expanded into many other markets
as well, including pharmaceuticals, medical and
surgical products, industrial chemicals, chemical and
bacteriological weapons and geneered organisms
for industrial and agricultural applications. Over time,
SuSAG acquired an unfavourable reputation due to its

History of the Third Imperium

The night we got there the Highport got shut down.
We were told to stay in our ship while the navy sorted
things out. Before they blocked our sensors, we
saw three of the dreadnoughts position themselves
in equidistant spots over the mainworld while the
other two went heaven knows where. I tried to calm
my crew down any way I could but they were losing
it. We’d all heard stories about situations like this
but we never thought we’d become involved in one.
Some kind of revolt or a viral outbreak or something.
We figured they were interdicting the planet. I’d
met Shingans before on other worlds and always
thought they seemed fine but maybe they were up to
something. We had no way of knowing.

When they finally let us go, we saw a different world
than the one we came to. It was on fire. From orbit, we
could see that all the major urban areas were glowing
like hot coals and huge dust storms were swirling all
over the planet. Eight billion people dead, wiped out
by orbital bombardment. Now it made sense where
the other two ships went. They went to the belts to get
rocks to throw. The only folks to leave Maaruur were
those of us at the highport who passed quarantine. The
only Credits we made on that trip were from a few mid
passages booked by folks stuck at the highport. We
even took a few Shingans on our jump to Khuumiam.
It didn’t occur to me at the time but the ones we took
were some of the last of their kind. They must have
been devastated. Most just stayed in their staterooms
during jump and we respected their privacy. We gave
them their money back. What else could we do?

85

