T

History of the Third Imperium

involvement with psionic drugs and other controversial
projects but the corporation and others like it produced
many products that improved the lives of Imperial
citizens and made it possible to colonise worlds with
challenging environments.

86

The efficiency with which the Imperial bureaucracy
managed the domains increased. Individual worlds
were allowed to govern themselves as they saw fit,
resulting in unique cultural and societal flavours.
Cleon’s dream of a massive trade empire, defended by
the most powerful and well-equipped navy in history,
had come to fruition. While all Imperial worlds enjoyed
the benefits of unity, there were those who saw the
Imperium not as the realisation of a dream but only
as an evolutionary step in the development of human
civilisation. The Imperium felt otherwise; any evolution
that was happening stopped at the Iridium Throne.

THE ILELISH REVOLT

In 418, the government of the Ilelish system, capital of
a sector by the same name, declared its independence
from the Imperium. Ilelish was the homeworld of the
Suerrat human Minor Race. It and many other highpopulation worlds in the domain had begun to feel
neglected by the expanding empire, which had focused
most of its resources on defence of the borders,
growth of the frontier and the construction of the Star
Lane. By 420, 12 other high-population worlds across
six subsectors had joined the Ilelish Revolt. The

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

governments of these worlds were united in the belief
that independence was the best way forward for them.
By design, the Imperium did not interfere in the affairs
of individual worlds provided they did not break Imperial
law. The leaders of the Ilelish Revolt sought to create a
separate state that took a much heavier hand in world
affairs, standardising Law Levels, governance and
access to technology. This was a crime that invoked the
high justice clause, enforced by Imperial military forces.
In exile, the Archduke of Ilelish called Capital for
assistance. The Imperium reinforced the Ilelish
Sector Fleet with elements of the Dagudashaag and
Gushemege fleets and blockaded the worlds involved
in the revolt. Most surrendered with minimal violence
and Ilelish was the last to fall in 435. To prevent future
revolts, the Imperium made an example of Ilelish. They
evacuated the lush equatorial region where most of its
population lived and blasted it into oblivion, reducing a
once vibrant world into a highly populated backwater.
The capital of the domain was moved to Dlan. Nearly
seven centuries later, Ilelish remains an ecologically
and economically devastated world.
The destruction of Ilelish was intended to be an abject
lesson: defy the Imperium at your own peril. Emperor
Martin III recalled members of the Ilelish peerage to
Capital, whereupon he personally revoked many of
their noble patents and demoted the Order of Ilelish in
precedence. Some were tried and convicted of treason
and either executed or shipped off to the prison camp

R

