on Sher. Notably, he left the archduke in place. Before
sealing the deal, Martin gave a public address in the
Imperial Park, on the grounds between the palace and
Moot Spire:
The peerage is responsible for the administration
of the domains, sectors, subsectors, worlds and
continents. If they fail to do their jobs, they risk the
integrity of the Imperium itself. Emperor Cleon built
this empire on the foundation of duty and honour.
Without it, we have nothing.
The Ilelish Revolt had been brewing for decades before
it occurred. There were rumblings as early as 399 when
several of the domain’s high-population worlds had
begun negotiating for an autonomous region, similar to
that of the League of Antares. The Emperor knew about
this but did nothing, placing his faith in the peerage to
resolve the issue. The fabric of the Imperium was the
power vested in the archdukes and subordinate nobles
to manage their domains. In most such crises, the
nobility was successful in this capacity. Not so in Ilelish.
Martin saw it as a potential harbinger of things to come
and was forced to make significant changes in the way
the domains were managed. Cleaning house in Ilelish
was just the beginning.

BAD MOONS RISING

Empress Nicholle’s reign was brief and
undistinguished. She did oversee the absorption of the
Easter Concord into the Imperium in 426, strengthening
ties with the Solomani Rim and coming ever closer
to integrating Terra. The Star Lane had, by this time,
become a secure route from the Imperial Core to the
Solomani homeworld. Hundreds of parsecs in the other
direction, the Imperium continued to consolidate its
holdings in the Spinward Marches, annexing the Vilis
subsector and making an enemy of the Sword Worlds,
a pocket empire of Terrans who had come to the region

Despite the continued expansion of the Imperium,
the Moot and its Chancellor were frustrated by
the unwillingness of the Empress to address the
Imperium’s most pressing issues. Nicholle’s greatgrandfather had left unfinished business to his heirs.
The Peace of Ftahalr was a singular achievement but
most believed it merely delayed confrontation with the
Aslan; a long-term solution was required. Furthermore,
the Ilelish Revolt had revealed weaknesses in the
bureaucracy that required tending to. Nicholle was,
by most accounts, disinterested in dealing with such
issues. The Moot and a co-conspirator of dubious
lineage decided to take action.
Admiral Eledon Shaster, a distant heir of the Zhunastu
line, was selected from an extensive cast of characters
to become the first non-dynastic Emperor. Admiral
Shaster had enjoyed a distinguished naval career,
which had earned him the undying loyalty of the Core
Sector Fleet. Although he only had tenuous ancestral
lines to the original Zhunastu Dynasty, he had exactly
what the activist cabal from the Moot wanted: ambition
and dubious ethics. Shaster was credited with the
assassination of the Empress and her entire family,
clearing the way for a new Emperor to take her place.
The majority of the Moot cried foul but extortion, death
threats and other skulduggery ensured there would be
just enough votes to confirm the new Emperor. Shaster
was crowned Cleon IV in 475, setting a dangerous
precedent for the Imperium. While the previous use of
the Right of Assassination was arguably justified since
it rid the throne of Cleon the Mad, the assassination of
Nicholle merely for being disinterested in the job or ‘too
weak’ as Shaster himself had said, would come back to
haunt the Imperium.
The reign of Cleon IV was corrupt from the beginning.
Five years after his coronation, Cleon revoked the
patents of dozens of Vilani nobles, many of whom held
positions in the Moot. He then promoted others in their
places, most of whom were of either pure or mixed

History of the Third Imperium

Martin III was killed in an air/raft accident on the
Imperial reserve world of Crompton in 456. The
Emperor was reportedly taking an evening ride with his
consort just as the planet’s two moons were rising on
the eastern horizon. He died at the age of 167, once
again exhibiting the longevity of the Lentuli line. He
outlived his heir, who would have been crowned Martin
IV, so his grandson ascended to the throne as Martin
V. Unfortunately, the new Emperor did not have the
hearty constitution of his ancestors and died of natural
causes the following year at 100, middle age by Lentuli
standards. Martin’s daughter, Nicholle, was confirmed
by the Moot and crowned the second Empress of the
Imperium in 457.

centuries earlier aboard sublight generation ships.
Things were proceeding apace but most events
were the products of historical momentum more than
any sort of directed plan. If recent events were any
indication, sleepwalking through history was not an
advisable approach. However, the Empress showed
little interest in developments that were far from the
Imperial Court on Capital. Pressed by the Chancellor to
appease the burgeoning frontier, the Empress declared
Aosta in Deneb to be an Imperial reserve world in 474,
the first water world to receive the distinction. The
declaration was… underwhelming, not at all what the
Moot was hoping for.

87

