T

Solomani blood. Coinciding with these events were
a number of declarations made by the Emperor that
removed regulations and restrictions on the abilities
of the peerage to tax the Imperial citizens under their
purview. The additional windfall of tax revenue found its
way directly into the accounts of the nobility themselves.
The megacorporations and merchant lines were making
astronomical sums of Credits as the Imperium grew
larger and more secure. The peerage wanted their cut
and they got it at the behest of a pliable Emperor who
served their every whim.

History of the Third Imperium

There was no shortage of investigative journalism
exposing this corruption but bribery, murder and control
of key media outlets kept localised scandals from
becoming an Imperium-wide scandal. Meanwhile, Cleon
IV distracted the citizens of the Imperium. The Imperium
manufactured crises when necessary and in other cases
merely took advantage of events that played into their
hands. One such event was the Hidden War.

88

Emperor Martin III had launched a series of Alien
Missions in 382 whose intention was to survey the
territories of the Major Races. The Vargr Mission
occurred from 486 to 499 and included the region of
space held by the Julian Protectorate. The Julians did
not take kindly to intrusions of their sovereign space
and used terrorism and hired Vargr corsairs to harry
scouts wherever they could. The Imperium responded
by sending Imperial Naval Intelligence (INI) agents
to counter the threat. This ‘Hidden War’ was initially
classified by the Imperium but received a great deal of
media attention in the Julian Protectorate, news of which
inevitably found its way back to the Imperium. Emperor
Cleon IV used the Hidden War for propaganda purposes,
leveraging it as a unifying issue in the Imperium.
Despite the exorbitant wealth and relative stability of the
era, the reign of Cleon IV was largely viewed as a blight
upon the history of the throne, one which would end as
abruptly as it began… with an assassination. Jerome,
yet another dubious claimant to the throne, murdered
Cleon in 555 in what was likely his deathbed; had Cleon
IV been allowed to die naturally, his heir would have
ascended to the throne and the non-dynastic era would
have ended. However, Jerome made sure to kill the heir
and everyone else in his family tree who might have had
a claim. Clearly the Moot – or at least an influential cabal
therein – was onto something. By removing dynasties

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

before they were allowed to happen, they made the
Emperor their puppet. An Emperor beholden to the Moot
ruled at the beck and call of the nobility. What could go
wrong? As it turned out, a great deal.
As the non-dynastic era unfolded, the foundations of the
Third Imperium began to dissolve. The sectors which
suffered the greatest losses of power at court were those
on the frontiers, several of which were key players in
the long-term plans of the empire. The beneficiaries of
the centralisation of power were the sector dukes and
Admiralty. Each pursued their own agendas, which were
not always in concert with one another.
The sectors of the Domain of Deneb began to feel
the pinch as did the Solomani Rim. In the Marches,
it became clear that should a crisis arise they were
on their own. This occurred just as tensions with
the neighbouring Zhodani Consulate, Vargr Extents
and Sword Worlds began to rise. Conversely, in the
Solomani Rim, the pocket empires began to join the
Imperium at an increasing rate, even as the stability of
the empire began to dissipate.
Shortly after the assassination of Jerome by Jacqueline,
the third of the non-dynastic Emperors, the pieces
began to fall into place in the Solomani Rim. The Dingir
League joined the Imperium in 582 followed closely by
the Arcturus Federation in 583. Empress Jacqueline
appointed the first Archduke of Sol, hastening the
following events. The Vegan Polity joined in 586 and
then finally, the grand prize: the Old Earth Union
and its capital at Terra joined in 588. The event was
accompanied by a scientific expedition to Terra, which
confirmed the findings of the Solomani Hypothesis once
again. Terra was the homeworld of all Humaniti and now
it was a prized world of the Third Imperium.
Terra had long hung over the Imperium like a Sword
of Damocles. As the confirmed homeworld of Humaniti
and one of the most powerful economic forces in
Charted Space, its destiny was undeniable; yet its
integration into the Imperium had been dreaded for
centuries. Terra would immediately pose a political
threat to Capital. Regardless of its distance from
the Imperial Core, the legacy and symbolic power of
Terra could not be denied. The integration of Terra
had to happen, yet it posed a threat to everything the
Imperium stood for, and worse, it occurred just as the
Imperium was wavering from self-inflicted wounds. As
bad as things had gotten, they were about to become
much worse.

R

