THE FRONTIER

WARS BEGIN

After decades of sabre rattling, the Zhodani Consulate
and two Vargr states – the Ngoerrgh Togzekhz and
the Gnaithlloellarrgh Gzolakhgha – launched an attack
against the Imperium in the Spinward Marches in 589.
The initial plan of the aggressors, who called themselves
the Outworld Coalition, was for the Vargr to raid the
coreward worlds of the Regina and Aramis subsectors
while the Zhodani conquered Cronor and Jewell. The
Imperium gained an ally in the Darrian Confederation,
which had lost the so-called Entropic Worlds to the
opportunistic Sword Worlds, who joined the war on the
side of the Coalition.
After receiving word of the war, Empress Jacqueline
established the Domain of Deneb, uniting the Spinward
Marches, Deneb, Trojan Reach and Reft. However, she
did not appoint an archduke to the new domain, giving
it no central leadership. The creation of the new domain
was intended to be a symbolic move that would carry
a great deal of weight. What the worlds of the domain
really wanted was Imperial military support.
The war lasted for 15 years with many systems changing
hands. The Imperium lost most of the Jewell cluster early
but reacquired their foothold in 603 when fleet elements
commanded by Grand Admiral Olav hault-Plankwell
pushed the Zhodani out of Jewell and Emerald after
intense fighting.

The respite between the First and Second Frontier
Wars was brief. By 609, the Gzolakhgha Empire and
the Ekhlle Ksafi (the most powerful splinter state that
emerged from the Ngoerrgh Togzekhz Civil War) joined
with the Zhodani to prepare for a second war with
the Imperium. This time, the Sword Worlds joined the
Outworld Coalition at the beginning of the war in an
attempt to reacquire all of the worlds they had lost to the
Imperium in Vilis.
The Zhodani launched the first attack of the Second
Frontier War in 615 at Cipango. The war quickly
spread to Jewell and Regina. The Vargr were much
more effective allies in the second war. Again without
support from Capital, newly appointed Grand Admiral
Alkhalikoi executed a holding action with the limited
resources at her disposal. The manufacture of several
new dreadnoughts, which were quickly launched into
action, helped stave off relentless Zhodani attacks.
The Imperium was once again joined by the Darrian
Confederation, who turned back the Zhodani with the
threat of the Star Trigger, a stellar destabilisation weapon
that was allegedly in their possession. By the end of
the war, the Zhodani had conquered all of Cronor and
several worlds in Jewell. The Vargr failed to permanently
acquire any new territory but made themselves rich
with plunder and successfully diverted Imperial forces
that would otherwise have fought the Zhodani. The
Sword Worlds were soundly defeated by the Imperium,
which occupied many of their worlds for five years after
the war. Tired of being drawn into these conflicts, 11
worlds in Vilis seceded from the Imperium, becoming
independent. Depleted from two devastating wars, there
was little the Imperial Navy could do about it.
All in all, the Second Frontier War was disastrous for
the Imperium, despite the heroic efforts of its military to
stave off the invasion. In most eras, the public would
have called for the heads of the Sector Admiralty after
taking such a beating but the citizens of the Marches
generally understood that they had been abandoned
by the Imperium. Like her mentor before her, Grand
Admiral Alkhalikoi intended to take their grievance
directly to Capital, hoping to achieve more lasting
results. She left the sector in the capable hands of
Baron Caranda of Regina.

History of the Third Imperium

The decisive battles of the war were fought in 604.
Zhodani Grand Admiral Tliaklabtl attempted to strike
a decisive blow in the Battle of Jae Tellona, in which
combined Zhodani and Vargr fleets would purportedly
overwhelm the colonial forces of the Imperium. However,
the Vargr squadrons failed to show up for the battle,
leaving the Zhodani to fight alone and they were
defeated by Admiral Plankwell with reinforcements from
Porozlo. In the Battle of Rhylanor, a young Duchess
Arbellatra Alkhalikoi led undermanned Imperial system
defence forces against the Zhodani. She was made a
captain by Plankwell at the age of 20 as a reward for her
accomplishments. The final battle of the war was fought
at Zivije, where the Gzolakhgha Vargr and Zhodani
made their final stand. They were outmatched by the
combined Imperial fleets that routed them. Admiral
Plankwell declared victory as exhausted forces on both
sides ceased fighting with one another. The two sides in
the conflict paused briefly to regroup and rearm.

All told, the Zhodani made territorial gains in Cronor but
the Imperium acquired several worlds in Jewell. The
failure of the Ngoerrgh Togzekhz Vargr resulted in a
civil war that broke the Vargr state apart. The Darrians
pushed the Sword Worlds out of the Entropic Worlds
with help from the Imperium. An enraged Admiral
Plankwell collected elements of his fleet and made his
way to Capital.

89

