T

The Civil War

At the end of the First Frontier War, a furious Grand
Admiral Olav hault-Plankwell gathered his remaining
forces and made his way to Core. Plankwell intended
to express his indignation in the most dramatic way
possible: by usurping the throne. He arrived at Capital
in 606, purportedly to celebrate the victorious efforts
of the First Frontier War but promptly murdered
Jacqueline and declared himself Emperor Olav I by
Right of Assassination. Olav’s ascendance ended
the era of the non-dynastic Emperors but did little
to quell the instability of their reign. His brief run
as Emperor was cut short when his most trusted
officer assembled disgruntled fleet elements, uniting
them with squadrons of the Core fleet and defeated
Plankwell in battle, declaring himself Ramon I. He was
confirmed by the Moot, beginning the disastrous era of
the Emperors of the Flag.
A succession of Emperors of the Flag ruled the
Imperium for 13 years. Power was acquired by ‘Fleet
Control’, in which a prospective claimant to the throne
assembled portions of the Imperial Navy, came to
Capital, imposed their will upon the current Emperor
by defeating loyalist naval forces and then either
assassinated or killed him or her in battle.

90

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

All of this was arguably made possible by the era of
the non-dynastic Emperors who gradually centralised
power around Capital and ignored the burgeoning
Imperial frontiers. The citizens of the Imperium
had come to expect more from their Emperor. The
bureaucracy had been appointed by Cleon I to serve
with honour and duty. The archdukes, dukes and all
of the peerage were to perform as extensions of the
Emperor. The untimely assassination of Empress
Nicholle 131 years prior to the Civil War had started
a chain of events that unravelled the very fabric of
Cleon’s Imperium and untethered the strands of duty
and honour upon which it was built. It was time for the
Imperium to pay the consequences.

EMPERORS OF THE FLAG

From 609 to 622, a series of short-lived Emperors
ruled the Third Imperium. All of them ascended to
the throne by Right of Assassination or Right of Fleet
Control. All were naval officers of flag rank and all
were pure Solomani. Perhaps the darkest hour of the
Civil War was the brief era of the Barracks Emperors,
in which many claimants to the throne arose, none
of whom were confirmed by the Moot and therefore
not worthy of mention. The region around Capital
briefly became an autonomous state but the Imperial
bureaucracy remained in power, preventing the
dissolution of the Imperium.

R

