Emperor

Reign

Events

Olav

606–609 The hero of the First Frontier War arrived at Capital under the pretence of celebrating
the victory and broke the non-dynastic line of Emperors by assassinating Empress
Jacqueline I. Confirmed by the Moot. Olav disbanded the Imperial Guard and Marine
Escort Service.

Ramon I

609

Constantus

609–610 Claimed the throne by Right of Assassination. Not confirmed by the Moot. The IISS
declared neutrality during Constantus’ brief reign.

Nicolai

610–612 Defeated Constantus in the Battle of Rakakaka, killing him in battle and then claiming
the throne by Right of Fleet Control. Not confirmed by the Moot.

George

612–613 Ascended to the throne by Right of Assassination. Not confirmed by the Moot.

Protégé of Olav who convinced a large portion of the fleet to revolt. Ramon’s forces
appeared to have lost in the Battle of Tricanus but his destruction of Olav’s flagship
turned the tide. Olav was killed during the boarding action. Credited with the invention
of the Right of Fleet Control. Confirmed by the Moot after some deliberation only to be
assassinated by Constantus.

The Barracks 613–615 A succession of claimants to the throne, too numerous to name, assassinated and slew
Emperors
one another in battle during this chaotic era. The Sylean Worlds temporarily became an
autonomous state. The Second Frontier War began in the Spinward Marches
615–618 The last of the Barracks Emperors broke up the Sylean autonomous state and was
confirmed Emperor by the Moot in a close vote. The IISS sided with Cleon, revoking its
neutrality clause. Cleon appointed Arbellatra Alkhalikoi Grand Admiral of the Spinward
Marches Sector Fleet.

Joseph

618

Just as the Moot thought that the debacle had come to an end, along came another
pretender to the throne. Joseph defeated Cleon by the Right of Fleet Control in the
Battle of Markatch, killing him in battle. Not confirmed by the Moot.

Donald

618

Hoping to capitalise on the ill will that Joseph had engendered, Donald assembled
a fleet and defeated those of Joseph in the Battle of Arakoine, killing him in battle.
Donald was not confirmed by the Moot and did not survive the year.

Emdiri

618-619

Claimed the throne by Right of Assassination towards the end of 618 and barely made
it into 619 before suffering the same fate. Not confirmed by the Moot.

Catherine

619

Exhausted by the string of pretenders, the Moot nominated Catherine to sit upon
the vacant throne. Allegedly she murdered Emdiri, becoming Empress by Right of
Assassination. Catherine only survived for a few months.

Ramon II

619

The Moot’s puppet, Catherine, was given short shrift. Ramon II assassinated her
and ascended to the throne. A reluctant but exhausted Moot confirmed him, hoping
for peace.

Jacqueline II

619

Defeated Ramon II in the Battle of the Nivzhine Belt, killing him in battle. The Moot
confirmed her as Empress.

Usuti

619–620 Defeated Jacqueline II in the Second Battle of Arakoine, killing her in battle. The Moot
confirmed him as Emperor.

Marava

620

Ivan

620–621 Defeated Marava in the Battle of Sulgami, killing her in battle. The Moot confirmed him
as Emperor.

Martin VI

621

Gustus

621–622 Proclaimed Emperor by Right of Assassination. Confirmed by the Moot.

Defeated Usuti in the Third Battle of Arakoine, killing him in battle. Destroyed the
Grand Palace of Martin II during the final assault on Capital. The palace remains
on the grounds of the Imperial Park where it crashed during the conflict. The Moot
confirmed Marava as Empress.

Defeated Ivan in the First Battle of Zhimaway, killing him in battle. The Moot confirmed
him as Emperor.

History of the Third Imperium

Cleon V

91

