T

Saviour of the Empire

Grand Admiral Arbellatra Alkhalikoi is sometimes
referred to as the last of the Emperors of the Flag.
Doing so is a disservice to her legacy.
Like Admiral Plankwell, Arbellatra assembled elements
of her fleet at the conclusion of a Frontier War and
promptly embarked upon an epic journey of nearly 150
parsecs from Rhylanor to Capital. Emperor Gustus
awaited her arrival with the might of the 1st Fleet at
his disposal. Arbellatra defeated the bulk of his forces
at the Second Battle of Zhimaway, the system’s most
prominent gas giant, and then proceeded to Capital
where she assassinated Gustus. Unlike the previous 17
usurpers, Arbellatra did not claim the throne. She asked
the Moot to confirm her not as Empress but as Regent.
She held the throne in escrow until a suitable candidate
could be found. Her actions ended the Civil War and
peace finally returned to the Imperium.

History of the Third Imperium

As Regent, Arbellatra made allies in the Moot and
established a power base among the peerage. By
absolving all participants in the war for their actions
during it, she established firm control of the military,
particularly the navy that had been divided into
countless factions by use of the Right of Fleet Control.
In an effort to maintain the hard-fought stability that had
been restored, the Moot granted the Regent sweeping
powers, not unlike those of the Emperor.

92

Arbellatra promoted the Marquis Caranda, making him
the first Duke of Regina. For their loyal service during
the Civil War, she rewarded the Geonee by creating the
Duchy of Shiwonee and moving its subsector capital
to Shiwonee. Arbellatra’s generosity did not extend
to all domains. In Antares, she revoked the patent
of Archduke Glazdon Deirdin for not supporting the
Regency, installing Admiral Soegz in his place, the
first Vargr to be so honoured. Deirdin was executed
for treason. Likewise, in Deneb, Arbellatra revoked the
patents of the Humbolts of Vincennes. The Marquis
Humbolt had perhaps been expecting a promotion
to duke but was sacked for the involvement of his
family in numerous criminal activities. The Humbolts
disappeared from public view, perhaps exiling
themselves somewhere beyond Imperial borders.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In 624, Arbellatra established the Imperial X-Boat
Network, which would hasten communications between
all of the domains and most importantly to Capital itself.
The IISS would manage the system with a network of
way stations. Over time, the function of these bases
would expand from mere maintenance facilities to
full training centres. This move transformed the IISS
bureaucratic structure into its current state, establishing
Communications, Exploration and Survey branches.
The project was expected to take many decades before
it was completely functional and serviced the entirety of
the Imperium.
The advent of the Imperial X-Boat Network was
accompanied by a major event in the history of the
IISS: the establishment of the Suleiman-class scout/
courier, x-boat and x-boat tender as the primary
starships of the service. Previously, the scouts used
a broad array of spacecraft manufactured by myriad
vendors. With the creation of way stations to service its
ships, higher-ups in the IISS bureaucracy realised that
the costs of maintaining so many sets of spare parts
could bankrupt the service. By standardising on the
trio of key starships, the IISS reduced the impact on its
budget immensely.
Arbellatra settled in at Capital, re-established the civility
of the Imperial court and married Duke Sergey Torgyan
Ashran of Cemplas, with whom she had three children:
Zhakirov, Anton and Maryam. The first two of her
children were born during the Regency era.
After seven years of fruitless searching for a viable
heir to the throne, Arbellatra was asked by the Moot
to become Empress. Arbellatra was the first of the
Alkhalikoi Emperors, returning the Imperium to dynastic
rule. The Alkhalikois remain in power in modern times
after nearly 500 years of stability.
In the first year of her reign, Arbellatra established
the Sylean Worlds cultural zone at the request of
the Sylean Concord. The combined leadership of its
worlds reminded the Empress that at the Imperium’s
darkest hour, they allowed their worlds to become an
autonomous state so the empire might survive. They
expressed their desire that their worlds should never
be used in such fashion again and began the process
of demilitarisation shortly thereafter. To this day, of all
the Sylean Worlds, only Capital maintains a permanent
military presence.

R

