A TALE OF TRAMP TRADERS

A curious historical sidenote from the Civil War era was the creation of the Empress Marava-class far
trader. While Marava’s reign was a short one, lasting less than a year, her singular achievement was the
felling of the Grand Palace of Martin II, destroying its gravitic suspensors and bringing the fairy tale-style
castle crashing into the Imperial Park where it remains to this day. For some, this event signified a new
beginning for the Imperium and while there was no reason to believe that Marava’s reign would last any
longer than the previous 13 Emperors of the Flag, there was a great deal of excitement about it on her
homeworld of Kaskii.
A small and struggling starship architecture firm on Kaskii called Bilitig und Dottir commemorated
Marava’s rise to power with the design of the 200-ton jump-2 Empress Marava. The ship featured
distinctly Solomani lines, employing the ‘bomber-nose’ look used on some of their bulk freighters. The
firm boasted that its jump-2 drive would liberate the ship from the jump-1 mains plied by the ubiquitous
Type-A free trader. Never mind that savvy Type-A owners had been fitting their ships with jump-2
drives for centuries; Bilitig brazenly marketed their ship as the first of its kind and boasted that it would
revolutionise the tramp trader business.
The initial run of starships sold out in short order but with the death of the actual Empress Marava in the
Battle of Sulgami, the class faded into obscurity. Bilitig had banked its entire firm on the project and went
bankrupt when a second run failed to materialise the interest of the first. However, with the ascent of
Arbellatra to the role of Regent, the class showed new signs of life. By the time she had taken the throne in
629, the Empress Marava-class had finally found a solid market. Its specifications were made available as
open source and several starship-construction companies began to manufacture it.
A minor controversy occurred some years later when remnants of the ancient Vilani Garu-class far trader
were discovered in the Ley and Glimmerdrift sectors. The clunkier, more utilitarian Garu had a nearly
identical interior form factor and deck plan to the Empress Marava. With the proprietors of the Garu design
lost in the annals of time and the Marava having become an open source starship, there was no legal
conflict to be had. Examples of both classes may now be found in operation throughout Charted Space.

The first years of the Alkhalikoi Dynasty were
industrious. A great deal of damage had been done
during the Civil War and things had to be set right.
The Marine Escort Service and Imperial Guard were
reinstated with a marine regiment added to the latter.
The intelligence services received a thorough house
cleaning, removing administrators and agents who did
not exhibit adequate loyalty to the Empress, replacing
them with hand-picked successors.
After the dramatic crash of the palace of Martin II, a
new one would have to be built. Arbellatra approved
a design for a new Grand Palace and construction
began immediately. The project was completed in 633.
The Grand Palace of Arbellatra was a one-kilometre
diameter sphere that floated above the Imperial Park

using gravitic lifters. It looked down upon the grounded
Palace of Martin II and stood 4.5 kilometres from the
Moot Spire, whose peak reached just above that of the
new palace. For a complete description of the palace,
see The Grand Palace of Arbellatra on page 157.
Arbellatra made many sweeping changes intended
to establish the power and security of the post-war
Imperium. Others were intended to be subtle. It had
not been lost on Arbellatra that all 17 Emperors of the
Flag, including herself, were Solomani. To achieve
greater balance, Arbellatra promoted many Vilani
nobles in the peerage. The integration of the Solomani
Rim had been interrupted by the Civil War, so this
was a dangerous time to make such changes but she
deemed them necessary nonetheless.

History of the Third Imperium

Belle Epoque

93

