T

The Empress established several new orders of
knighthood, including the Order of Hlyuea for loyal
Aslan citizens and the Order of Gvadakoung for
Vargr. She also founded the Order of the White
Star for esteemed psions. Previously, psionics
had been viewed with an element of scepticism in
the Imperium. This move brought psionics to the
forefront, lending them previously unseen levels of
validity and acceptance.
The Arbellatran Age was mostly one of peace in
which the empire renewed its commitments and
worked hard to restore the faith of its citizens. There
was the usual array of revolts to put down and a few
brushfire wars to attend to but large-scale conflicts
were avoided. The era came to an end in 666 upon
the death of Arbellatra by natural causes and the
subsequent ascendance of her son, Zhakirov.

Distant Thunder

History of the Third Imperium

The early years of Emperor Zhakirov’s reign featured
a continuation of his mother’s policies, emphasising
security, economic growth and above all, peace. If
the 20 sectors of the Imperium were the branches
of a tree, withered by the Civil War, those branches
were reinvigorated during the post-war era, given
bright new leaves, solid branches and a healthy
trunk. The central authority of Capital was once again
reinforced by an honour-bound nobility. Dissenting
dukes and archdukes had their patents revoked
and were replaced by those who fully supported the
Emperor and served the greater good of the empire.

94

Sacrifices had to be made to create peace and
stability. While the empire was composed of trillions
of sophonts, including a multitude of Minor Races, it
was still essentially governed by a Vilani-Solomani
compact. The Rule of Man may have perished some
two millennia earlier but the spectre of Solomani
culture still hung over it like a dark cloud. The
Solomani nobles who dominated the Moot, fairly or
unfairly, were blamed for much of the chaos that
had occurred. Their greed precipitated the nondynastic emperors and fomented the Civil War in
which each of the usurpers was of Solomani descent.
Empress Arbellatra and her heir, Zhakirov, devised

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

a seismic shift to the centre by promoting Vilani
nobles. If this was not a sure sign that the Imperium
intended to establish greater balance, Zhakirov
made it abundantly clear when he married Antiama
Shiishuginsa, a Vilani noble from a powerful family.
Publicly, the shift reflected a desire for greater
balance and stability but privately the Emperor knew
that he had a new and burgeoning threat to deal with:
the Solomani Movement. This movement expressed
that it was the destiny of the Solomani people to rule
all of Charted Space. The recent integration of Terra
and subsequent failure to complete the acquisition
of all Solomani territories to rimward made the
Solomani Movement dangerous to the empire.
Zhakirov’s death in 688 should have been followed
by a smooth transition to the next Imperial heir but
the situation was unprecedented: the ascendant
Empress Margaret was only four years old at the
time of her coronation. A Regency Council governed
on her behalf until she was determined to have come
of age. Cynical factions in the Moot – especially
aggrieved Solomani – saw this as an opportunity to
foment yet another dynastic crisis, possibly creating
a second civil war, but cooler heads prevailed and
Margaret was permitted to take the throne.
Under the advice of her Chancellor and key members
of the Moot, Margaret declared the Solomani
Autonomous Region with the Mandate of 704.
This gave the Solomani semi-independence in a
50-parsec radius from Terra. The Mandate placated
the powerful Solomani region and established
much-needed separation between the Rim and
Solomani agitators in the Imperial court, yet set the
stage for problems down the road. The Imperium
had by this time reached a maximum Tech Level of
14, surpassing the abilities of all of its neighbours.
Its navy was the most powerful military force
in Charted Space but its officer corps was still
dominated by Solomani. To prevent the Imperium
from returning to the self-destructive days of the Civil
War, concessions had to be made to the Solomani
Rim. Over time, it became increasingly obvious that
no amount of conciliatory action could satisfy the
adherents of the Solomani Movement.

R

