THE SOLOMANI

MOVEMENT

The Imperium awakened a sleeping giant when its
scouts made contact with the disparate pocket empires
of the Solomani Rim. The people of the Arcturus
Federation, Easter Concord, Vegan Polity, Dingir
League and most importantly of all, the Old Earth
Union, could hardly have known how much the far
greater empire to coreward feared and dreaded a future
in which the combined might of the Solomani Rim
would be brought to bear against them as a unifying
force. Shortly after the Imperial scouts made contact,
haut-Devroe published the Solomani Hypothesis,
expressing that not Vland, Shiwonee or any of the other
poseurs were the birthplace of Humaniti. The evidence
overwhelmingly proved beyond doubt that humans
originally came from Terra.
The Solomani Hypothesis was barely noticed when it
was first published. With the integration of the Rim, the
hypothesis became a rallying cry that helped spawn
the Solomani Movement. There was little the Imperium
could do to prevent an eventual day of reckoning. The
best the Emperor could hope for was to delay it and
that is exactly what happened.

DISSOLUTION OF THE NOBILITY
Noble patents are vacated. Hardliners come under fire
from a hostile Solomani population.
• 716: The Archduke of the Domain of Sol dies.
His seat is left vacant.
• 735: The Duke of Albadawi dies. His heir spurns
the title and joins the Solomani Movement.
• 760: Most noble patents are vacated. Violent
coups force many into exile. Some are recalled
to Capital.
REVOLUTION
The Solomani Movement sweeps over the Rim.
• Pro-Imperial factions voted out, forced into exile
or violently overthrown.
• 720: The Esperance World War: MajorityVegan nation of Waothan defeated by Nueva
Argentina. Waothanian Vegans become
second-class citizens.
• 750: Government of Nusku overthrown by
radical Solomani. Full citizenship granted only to
genetically pure Solomani.
• 780: The Pontiffs of Tonopah join the
Solomani Movement but preach that all
sophonts are equal.
• 786: SolSec-supported rebels topple Jardin’s
government. The remaining systems in the
subsector fall in line.
• 860: Momentum grows for the creation of a fully
independent Solomani state.
• 871: The Solomani break the Peace of Ftahalr
by settling worlds in the buffer zone.
THE NEVER IMPERIAL MOVEMENT
• The Imperial Civil War interrupted the full
integration of the Solomani Rim.
• Border worlds forego Imperial membership for
Solomani. The Movement spreads.
SOLOMANI CONFEDERATION
• The Solomani Autonomous Region secedes
from the Imperium in 871, declaring the
Solomani Confederation. The Imperium ignores
the declaration.
• The Palace of the Secretary-General is
completed on Terra in 876.
• Laurence Trinoch’s The Solomani Destiny
published on Home in Aldebaran in 881.

History of the Third Imperium

In the Solomani Autonomous Region, the core structure
of Imperial rule was dismantled while the Imperium
blithely looked on. In truth, there was little that could
be done. A war-weary populace was loath to get into
another major conflict so soon after the Civil War. The
mixed results of the Pacification Campaigns hung
over the Imperium like a spectre. While they had been
successful by and large, most of the peerage felt that
Artemsus’ crowning achievement was a slap in the face
to Cleon I, who advocated diplomacy, not force of arms,
to incorporate worlds into the empire. Furthermore, the
failure of the Antarean campaign would always haunt
the Imperium. It was difficult to imagine overcoming
a region with the size and power of the Solomani
Sphere when the Imperium had failed to defeat the
considerably smaller Julian Protectorate. However, the
Imperial Navy had grown immensely in the intervening
centuries. Mathematically speaking, the navy could
take on just about any opponent if it set its collective
mind to it but the public simply would not support such
a bold, aggressive move. As so often happened in the
history of Humaniti, it would require a crisis to push the
Imperium over the edge and into conflict.

THE RISE OF THE
SOLOMANI CONFEDERATION

95

