T

AND THE BAND PLAYED ON

Despite the imminent showdown with the Solomani Rim
on the horizon, the Imperium as a whole was perhaps
more stable than it had ever been. The Alkhalikoi
Dynasty proved to be an enduring one.
The Scout Service, now ubiquitous in Imperial space,
was further enhanced by the advent of the Detached
Duty branch. One could muster out of the scouts
but the scouts never truly mustered out of its former
employees. A scout is a scout for life. To enhance
its commitment to the reserves, the IISS developed
a programme by which retired personnel could gain
access to a scout/courier of their very own provided
they respond to the summons of the Scout Service
when required. In addition to providing a purpose for
retired Type-S ships, the move made scout veterans
into a de facto source of intelligence. Flitting about in
their loaner starships, they collected data that might
otherwise have been missed by intelligence agencies.

History of the Third Imperium

By 718, the Imperial X-boat Network had been
expanded to cover all of Imperial space, ensuring that
information travelled from one end of the Imperium
to the other at jump-4 speed. While the prospect of
governing such a vast expanse of space was and
continues to be a daunting task, the Imperial X-boat
Network ensures that its remote fiefs remain in
communication with Capital.

96

Speaking of Capital, its grandiosity continued to
grow. The Grand Palace of Arbellatra acquired
several annexes. In 729, Empress Margaret had the
Consortium Trinary built, a trio of smaller spheres that
would appear to ‘orbit’ the Grand Palace. The three
spheres contained museums dedicated to the Ziru
Sirka, Rule of Man and Third Imperium, respectively.
Access to the public was limited but the Trinary was
made available to academics year round.
Tragically, Empress Margaret died in a tunnel collapse
while visiting the Imperial Reserve World of Onon in
736. Margaret’s reign was unremarkable on the whole,
remembered more as an era of stability than for grand
achievements. Her twin brother, Paulo, was confirmed
by the Moot as the new Emperor. Margaret left no heir,
which could have caused a dynastic crisis but Paulo
was so well-suited to the crown that he was an easy
choice for the Moot. He was educated, erudite and
well-prepared for the role despite having suffered the
cruel hand of fate by being born a mere 22 minutes
after his twin sister.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Paulo’s reign was similar to that of Margaret. He
continued to cultivate relationships with the peerage
and kept the peace on Imperial borders, most notably
with the Zhodani Consulate. Other than putting down a
few minor revolts, Paulo did not embroil the Imperium
in conflicts. In 740, he left his mark on Capital, adding
yet another annex to the Grand Palace. Paulo’s Annex
was a pleasure palace, a place where visitors could
indulge in myriad forms of entertainment. Fine dining,
the performing arts, sporting events and countless
other diversions were featured. Beginning in 740 the
annex would serve as the primary site of the Emperor’s
Games, a decennial sporting event.
The greater inclusion of Vilani nobles in the Moot
and promotion of their cultural principles was a key
component in this era of prosperity and stability. If there
was one thing the Vilani were good at, it was running
a bureaucracy. Paulo was a great student of Imperial
history and the parallels of his era and that of the Ziru
Sirka before its fall were not lost upon him. He certainly
did not want to see the growing Third Imperium fall to
the burgeoning threat of the Solomani, just as the Ziru
Sirka had fallen to the Terran Confederation thousands
of years before. The Imperium was not yet ready to
confront the Solomani crisis directly. Instead, he simply
shepherded the empire along its current course.
Emperor Paulo died of natural causes in 767, and his
son, Tomutov, ascended to the throne. Alas, the weight
of the crown was too much for Tomutov, who abdicated
after two years. His sole legacy was the construction of
Tomutov’s Palace, another annex to the Grand Palace.
Tomutov’s Palace was a place of welcome, where
esteemed visitors to Capital could stay when they came
to see the Emperor.
Tomutov’s oldest offspring ascended to the throne
as Paula II in 768, beginning another era of steady
Alkhalikoi rule. Paula was only 16 when she took the
throne but took to the role quickly. Her first test of
leadership would come a mere four years into her reign.

The Psionic Suppressions

In 772, it was discovered that many of the Imperium’s
65 chartered psionic institutes had been infiltrated by
the Zhodani Consulate. For most of Imperial history,
psionics had been looked upon as an oddity of sorts.
While the practice of psionics was never fully embraced
in the Imperium, there had been psionics clubs and
psionicology university programmes since the age of
the Sylean Federation. Prior to the formation of the
Third Imperium, there were even worlds governed by
psionic leaders.

R

