Psions occupied many useful roles throughout the
Imperium, often serving as valuable aides to the
Emperor, members of the Moot and megacorporate
officers. There were even specialised psionic soldiers
in service to the military and intelligence agencies. The
discovery that just a portion of them had been infiltrated
by the Zhodani set loose a wave of hysteria. The
scandals extended to all levels of society and Imperial
citizens began to question whether their leaders at
all levels had been compromised by mind-controlling
psions. The xenophobic fear of the Zhodani was just
one aspect of the crisis. People began to question
the financial, ethical and moral implications of the
use of psionics. Were the markets fair or were they
manipulated by telepaths and clairvoyants? Was it right
for a powerful noble to use a psion to read the minds
of his political adversaries or to manipulate public
sentiment in his favour? Were the nobility the puppets
of psions? The practice of psionics, which had become
an accepted, if somewhat obscure, part of Imperial
society was now being questioned at all levels.

In 800, Empress Paula II signed the first of 65
suppression orders for all psionic institutes operating
within Imperial space. All of the institutes were
ordered to cease operations and training programmes
immediately. The hysteria carried over the border into
the Solomani Autonomous Region where a similar antipsionic pogrom took place. By 826, all of the institutes
had their charters revoked and practicing psions were
forced underground.
While the Psionic Suppressions garnered massive
public support, not everyone was quite so sanguine
about the whole affair. The Imperial megacorporation
SuSAG had a highly profitable psionic drug business
and was badly affected by the suppressions.
Sympathetic members of the peerage – especially
those who held SuSAG stock – pleaded for exemptions

The Psionic Suppressions were highly successful.
Those who still practiced psionics had to do so
in private, sliding into a dangerous and hostile
underworld. The Suppressions were the signature
achievement of Paula II but some wondered whether
the Imperium had gone too far. The public had been
gripped by mass hysteria, so easily condemning an
element of society that had long been thought benign.

History of the Third Imperium

The scandals went on for decades, coming to a head
in 792 when the pro-Zhodani government of Attica in
the Spinward Marches came under fire. Members of
the public asserted that Zhodani-trained psions had
manipulated the outcome of what were supposedly free
elections. Attica became a lightning rod for growing
anti-psionic sentiments and quickly descended into
chaos as protests against the government became
violent. Elected officials invited Zhodani peace-keeping
troops to restore order and an Imperial Navy squadron
blockaded the world in response to the Zhodani
incursion. The government fell before things got further
out of control and both the Zhodani and Imperium
withdrew. As news of these events swept across the
Imperium, anti-psionic fervour grew.

that would save the company from suffering more
damage to its finances and public image. There was
also the matter of psionically sensitive alien races.
There were several Minor Races within Imperial
borders whose rights were oppressed as a direct result
of their use of psionics. In addition, the Droyne had just
been declared a Major Race in 790 after a consortium
of archaeologists, historians and xenobiologists
determined that their scattered populations were a
single species. The fact that Droyne civilisation was
based on the use of psionics did not play in their
favour. The IISS promptly interdicted the worlds of
Andor and Candory in the Five Sisters subsector of
the Spinward Marches, which were considered to be
possible homeworlds of the Droyne. The Imperial Navy
sent a follow-up mission to secure the subsector.

97

