T

CONSPIRACY THEORIES

At the conclusion of the Psionic Suppressions,
there were numerous conspiracy theories about
who the ‘real’ culprits were. Many theorised that
the Zhodani were an all-too-convenient bad guy
and that their base of power was far too remote to
have infiltrated the Imperium so completely. Some
of the more popular conspiracy theories included
the following:
• The Imperium got tricked into getting rid of
their psionic institutes by SolSec.
• The Psionic Suppressions were a
Hiver manipulation.
• The Zhodani were indeed the culprits,
but the primary bad actors were from a
Consulate client state in The Beyond sector.
• None of the institutes were actually closed. A
psionic manipulation prevented the closures
from happening. They were moved, though,
to hide them from public view.

History of the Third Imperium

None of these were true, of course, but the last one
came the closest. Two psionic institutes remained
open after the Psionic Suppressions ended. They
were on Regina and Terra, both kept open by the
Imperial Department of Defence. The institute on
Regina was eventually moved to Wypoc in Lanth,
but the one on Terra is still there.

98

Of all the theories that came about, the one that
gained the most traction came nearly two centuries
after the fact. In his book, Almost Disaster, Imperial
Historian Albert Croale posited that the Psionic
Suppressions were a psychohistorical manipulation
designed to eliminate the growing power of
the psionic institutes. In the text, he surmised
that they worked too well, making it impossible
for the Imperium to continue using psionics in
any capacity. Croale also said that a straight
examination of the psychohistorical mathematics
indicated that the Third Frontier War, which did not
occur until 979, should have actually happened in
the late 700s, but that the Psionic Suppressions
effectively delayed the war for 200 years.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

PROJECT LONGBOW

For reasons that were mysterious at the time,
the Empress initiated a covert project in 830
called Project Longbow or more accurately,
LongBOW (Long Baseline Observation
Window). The goal of the project was to
create an immense radar telescope, 46 billion
kilometres in diameter, with its collector plane at
the Lishun Depot. The purpose of the elaborate
device was to view the galactic core where
the Zhodani had been sending expeditions for
centuries. Rumour had it that deep Imperial
scouting missions had discovered something
wrong far beyond the Zhodani Consulate and
Vargr Extents borders. While any data received
would be centuries old, it would give the
Imperium time to prepare for what, if anything,
might come their way. The project was not
completed until 940.

Prelude to War

Empress Paula II died of natural causes in 836,
leaving the throne to her third child, who was crowned
Tomutova II. Paula had held the Imperium together
through a crisis and it was now time for her daughter
to see it through yet another challenging phase of
history. Tomutova’s reign was almost deliberately
bland with its only notable event being the creation of
the Imperial Academy of Science and Medicine in the
Core in 845. A seemingly innocuous development, the
creation of the IASM is now greatly credited for the
advancement of technology that gave the Imperium
the upper hand in its upcoming conflict with the
Solomani Autonomous Region.
Tomutova, like many Empresses and Emperors before
her, was an avid adherent of psychohistory. She was
confident that the hand she played would enable the
Imperium to win its eventual conflict with the Solomani.
She also knew that it would occur long after her death
but in Tomutova’s mind the outcome was certain. It was
satisfying enough to know that she played her part,
preparing and arming for the conflict to come despite
having to endure the lashes of public opinion as one
system after another fell to the Solomani.

R

