Tomutova died in 908, passing the torch to her oldest
child, who was crowned Margaret II. The Alkhalikois
continued to play the long game and a succession of
wise rulers paved the way towards a psychohistoryguaranteed victory over the Solomani. This was a game
the Imperium had been preparing for since Artemsus
wisely resisted the temptation to integrate Terra in
the early 200s. Every psychohistorical prediction that
included the too-early incorporation of Terra had set
off alarm bells and changed the maths for the entire
Imperial project. Like Napoleon escaping from Elba,
Terra was an old conqueror that would have to be put in
its place before peace could finally be had.
Empress Margaret patiently watched as the
upstart Solomani Confederation – which remained
unrecognised by the Imperium – continued to spread
the Solomani Movement among its worlds and
threatened to spill over the border into Imperial space.
By 920, she began to receive appeals for protection
by worlds that had remained loyal to the Imperium. In
response, she made several demands of the Solomani
– taking great care to only indirectly address the
Solomani Party Secretariat and its Secretary-General
– ratcheting up the tension. The Imperium, she said,
would not be intimidated or cowed from protecting
Imperial citizens. She dispatched naval squadrons
to secure worlds along the borders of the Solomani
Autonomous Region. This stoked the fury of the
Solomani Confederation but there was little that they
could do at this point.

Like her mother before her, Margaret had trained her
heir since birth to prepare for this moment. Margaret
had grown old and infirm and suspected that Tomolin
would be the Empress whose role it would be to pacify

Emperor Styryx inherited an Imperium primed for war.
Along the Imperial-Solomani border, worlds changed
hands between the two sides with a net gain going to
the Imperium. Meanwhile, in the Spinward Marches,
commerce raiding along the coreward border by
Zhodani and Vargr starships had reached epidemic
levels. One would think that the Emperor would have
heeded the lessons of the past by paying closer
attention to events in the Marches but Styryx was
obsessed with the Solomani crisis.
Styryx and his wife were quick to produce an heir,
Gavin, born in 946, just one year after Styryx’s
ascension to the throne. Styryx was young, healthy and
hale after his brief career in the marines and expected
to have a long life but now was not the time for the
Imperium to suffer a dynastic crisis should anything
happen to him.
He fostered the growth of the IASM, extending it to 31
campuses throughout Imperial space. The Imperium
was driving hard toward a heretofore unseen Tech
Level 15 with early prototypes of weapons, electronics
and starships already in circulation.
As tensions continued to rise, Styryx stoked the flames
by appointing a naval commission in 970 to ‘manage’
the Solomani Autonomous Region, a sure-fire sign that
an invasion was being planned. He channelled the
majority of the Imperial military budget to the navy at
the expense of the other services, creating a stir in the
joint command structure. Senior officers of the army
and marines questioned how they were supposed to
secure Solomani worlds in the upcoming war without
proper funding. Styryx also poked the Solomani
beehive by making post-war plans for the region. In
975, a well-appointed task force from the diplomatic
corps laid the groundwork for a Vegan Autonomous
District. Up to this point, the Solomani had been able
to focus on the coreward front. By offering pre-emptive
concessions to the Vegans, the Emperor had the
Solomani looking over their shoulders as well.

History of the Third Imperium

By 938, skirmishes between Imperial and Solomani
naval squadrons had begun to flare up in the Daibei,
Diaspora and Old Expanses sectors. The Solomani
Movement had become fractious and the Imperium
sowed division between factions where it could. The
success of Imperial forces garnered more defections
to the Imperial side and, in a few cases, bold members
of the peerage returned to administer worlds that had
been previously lost. Fearing the advancement of
the Solomani Movement might be halted by Imperial
incursions, the Confederation issued a formal complaint
to the Empress that she was violating the tenets of the
Mandate of 704. After months of silence, the Empress
responded by revoking the Mandate and ordering the
immediate reintegration of the Solomani Autonomous
Region into the Imperium in late 940. The drums of war
began to beat ever louder.

the Solomani. Alas, Tomolin died in 944 after exposure
to an alien pathogen. Margaret feared that this single
event might derail centuries of planning. Tomolin’s son
Styryx, then an officer in the Imperial Marines, was
headstrong and had many connections with Solomani
factions in the military. She was leery about whether
her grandson could be depended upon to properly
execute the plan but psychohistoric predictions rarely
depend upon a single individual, even if that person is
the Emperor. Margaret died in 945, secure in her belief
that the Imperium would prevail despite her concerns.

99

