T

Interlude: Third Frontier War

With the Imperium almost completely focused on
the Solomani front, yet another Outworld Coalition,
led by the Zhodani Consulate, launched a surprise
attack in the Spinward Marches in 979. The Coalition
fleets concentrated their initial attacks on the Efate,
Boughene and Pixie systems in an attempt to cut off
Jewell and Querion. The Vargr aided in the attacks
but focused on commerce raiding to keep Imperial
auxiliary forces busy. Deep strikes by the Zhodani
established a narrow corridor through Vilis and
Lanth, preventing the easy transit of Imperial forces
through the region. This would normally have been
the province of the Sword Worlds who – suffering
through a constitutional crisis – sat this war out.

History of the Third Imperium

Just as it had in previous Frontier Wars, the Imperium
found itself caught off balance and inadequately
prepared. In 980, the Coalition established a foothold
on Jae Tellona and Porozlo fell to their forces after a
major invasion. Porozlo would serve as a marshalling
point for a relentless assault on Rhylanor that lasted
the duration of the war.

100

The attacks and raids by the Coalition reached their
apex in 981, allowing the Zhodani to make territorial
gains in Jewell and Querion. The war was a disaster
for the Imperium. Coalition forces were forced to
withdraw from the battle for Rhylanor after the
arrival of Imperial reinforcements from the Deneb
Sector Fleet and the 194th Fleet out of Sabine but
by then the damage was done. At the end of the
war, the Imperium ceded systems in both Jewell
and Querion, and was forced to demilitarise portions
of Vilis under the terms of the Armistice. Quar was
made an independent world though its Imperial
Navy base remained intact. Likewise, the research
station at Retinae was retained. Arden was spun
off into an independent world that then reached out
to neighbouring worlds to initiate the creation of a
neutral federation, eventually becoming a buffer state
between the Imperium and Zhodani Consulate.
Imperial forces had taken heavy casualties, far more
than in any of the previous Frontier Wars. In one of
the more egregious incidents of the war, the entire
910th Imperial Marine Regiment was lost in action.
It was scandalous that for the third time in Imperial
history, the Spinward Marches had been left to its
own devices after being brazenly attacked by the
Zhodani and their allies. In 989, the military and
its supporters in the Moot had had enough. With

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

the support of the military joint command structure,
Imperial Guard General Nicolai Dienne staged a
palace coup to overthrow Styryx. Only the Scout
Guard remained loyal to the Emperor but they were
quickly defeated by the Aslan Guard who took point
during the assault. Styryx, who was found hiding in a
fresher, surrendered and consented to abdicate the
throne in favour of his son, Gavin.
Gavin’s first major act as Emperor was to
commission the Scout Service to begin its Second
Survey of Imperial space in 990. The maps and
demographic data collected during the First Survey
had become obsolete. He instructed the scouts
to save the Solomani sectors for last since its
borders, he confidently assured them, would soon
be changing. The event was commemorated with the
introduction of a new starship class: the Donosevclass survey ship, named for Villemina Donosev, the
Master Chief Surveyor who was famous for having
published the First Survey in 420. Subsequent
starships in the class would be named for other
famous scouts.
One of Gavin’s final pre-war acts was to disband the
Solomani Regiment of the Imperial Guard, vowing to
reinstate it after the crisis in the Rim was addressed.

Brother vs. Brother

Leule left Exage on a liner bound for Asmera at the
crack of dawn. He spent all of his scholarship money
on a mid passage. Mother and Father refused to see
him off but I went. I didn’t want my last memory of him
to be the angry shouting match at the dinner table
the night before. When I begged him to reconsider,
he just spouted more of that Solomani Movement
stuff. About how being of Solomani blood makes you
special and how you have a unique destiny. The last
straw for him was when Mr. Dimaakhuna assigned
him to lathing duty at the plant. Leule said he couldn’t
stand another day of working for that Vilani... well, I
don’t want to repeat the next word. It’s impolite and
besides, I always thought Mr. Dimaakhuna was a fair
and reasonable boss.
From Asmera, he was supposed to catch a transport
to Burlta where Solomani forces had recently taken
over. After Emperor Styryx abdicated, the Imperial
Navy pulled out and the Solomani moved in. Leule
said he would pledge himself to the Movement there,
hoping to join one of the more extreme factions. Our
family had roots in the Old Expanses dating back

R

