to the Rule of Man. I tried to convince Leule that
there was no way he could know if we were really
‘genetically pure’ Solomani or not. Our homeworld
was a place where Vilani and Solomani had mixed for
thousands of years. The tests were inconclusive but
he said he could feel it in his blood that he was ‘pure’.
Military service is mandatory on Exage and I got
conscripted into the army in 989, right before the
Rim War. I was assigned to mobile infantry. I was
one of the ‘boots on the ground’ as they say. The
Imperial Navy comes in, beats up enemy squadrons,
the marines hit the ground first and then we come
in on transports to secure and hold the place down.
I fought in the Battle of Martham Prime in the first
year of the war. Things didn’t go well early on and
we got pushed back. The thought of retreating to
my homeworld and defending it against Solomani
invaders terrified me. The idea that Mother, Father
and our younger sister would be endangered kept
me up at night.
Eventually things turned around and we started
winning. I was a sergeant in 998 when we had made
it all the way to Desel. By then, my little sister was
a midshipman in the Imperial Navy. At the time, I
wondered if my sister and I ever fought in the same
star system but after the war, we checked and
we were never closer than 10 parsecs from each
other. As for Leule, I never saw him again. I heard
that he fought in the Battle of Gresham, where
I was stationed for a while, but even although I
tried, I couldn’t find him. I will always wonder what
happened to him.

Distraction and indecision followed the Imperial
defeat in the Third Frontier War. After the coup,
abdication of Styryx and quick ascension of Gavin,
the Imperial fleets were temporarily ordered to stand
down and await further instructions. News takes time
to travel across the broad expanse of the Imperium
but once couriers had made it to the front, the
subsequent pause allowed the Solomani to retaliate
and regain most of the worlds they had recently lost.
The Imperium declared that this would not stand and
declared war on the Solomani Confederation in 990.

The two sides were stalemated for the next five years,
neither gaining significant ground on the other. The
Solomani had become obsessed with the defence
of every single world along the border, precariously
stretching their forces in the process. Meanwhile, the
Imperial Navy was in a period of rapid technological
advancement, moving to TL15 and improving its fleets
to a jump-4 standard. By 998, the Imperium was
prepared to prosecute the war with great alacrity.
Grand Admiral Baroness Arielle Adair massed the
Imperial fleets and proceeded into the Solomani
Confederation in two distinct columns, conquering
hundreds of worlds and carving a crescent of star
systems within the Solomani sphere. By 1001, the
worlds of the former Vegan Polity had been liberated.
Having long been oppressed by the Solomani,
the Vegans made natural allies for the Imperium.
They welcomed their liberators and invited them
to establish permanent bases on their worlds from
which they could continue their long march into
Solomani space.
Admiral Ivan Wolfe took charge of the Solomani Grand
Fleet and prepared for a last-ditch effort to preserve
the heart of the Confederation. ‘Grand’ may have
been a bit of a misnomer. After four years of retreat,
what was left was a ragtag assemblage of capital
ships bolstered by replacements from the rimward
shipyards. The Solomani had been hard-pressed to
keep up their fleets under persistent assault from
the larger, more advanced Imperial fleets. Jump-4
capability enabled Imperial squadrons to leapfrog the
front lines to decimate Solomani reinforcement fleets
and auxiliaries before returning to the front.

History of the Third Imperium

The Solomani Rim War

In the early battles of the war, things went poorly
for the Imperium. The massed Solomani fleets and
ground forces repelled the Imperial advance and
actually ended up conquering several worlds that
had never previously been a part of the Solomani
Confederation. After three years of war the Imperium
had suffered a net loss of worlds. Emboldened by
their success, the Solomani attempted to regain
lost territory in the Old Expanses only to be sharply
rebuffed, especially on worlds with large Vilani
populations. Now firmly in the Imperial camp, the
Old Expanses Sector Fleet delivered a devastating
blow to the Solomani, inflicting heavy losses that
prevented them from going on the offensive for
almost the entirety of the war.

101

