T

Despite the attrition the Solomani fleets had
suffered, Wolfe managed to inflict major damage
on the Imperial 17th Fleet at Agidda before moving
on to attempt a similar attack on the 1st Fleet in the
Vegan District. However, the reconstituted 17th Fleet
regrouped and proceeded to Dingir where it delivered
decisive blows on Wolfe’s rear guard, cutting off his
fleet’s supply lines and essentially destroying its
ability to function. Wolfe was forced to withdraw and
was harried by the Imperial 1st Fleet during his retreat
to Aldebaran.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Imperial High Command rallied its forces for the
final assault on Terra. With 14 squadrons and five
army corps, the Imperium engaged in an assault
that lasted nearly six months. Things became so
desperate that the Imperium considered using
nuclear weapons late in the battle but cooler heads
prevailed. By the end of the battle, the Imperium
had landed over two million troops on the surface of
Terra. Late in 1102, the Solomani surrendered the
world and an armistice was signed. While no formal
peace agreement was ever signed, the Imperium
managed to conquer and occupy approximately
25 percent of the Solomani Autonomous Region

TEST OF LOYALTY

Pureblood and mixed-heritage Solomani occupied many stations in the Imperium. Prior to the Alkhalikoi
Dynasty, the Solomani dominated the Moot and composed most of the Imperial Navy High Command.
There were some defections to the Solomani Confederation but the vast majority remained loyal to the
Imperium. By the time of the Solomani Rim War, the Imperium was nearly 1,000 years old and it had been
two and a half millennia since the fall of the Rule of Man. While vague notions of loyalty to Mother Terra
existed, new and more lasting loyalties to the Third Imperium had taken their place for most humans of
Solomani descent.

History of the Third Imperium

Many found the Solomani Movement to be distasteful. Adherents of the movement declared that it was
not just humans but only Solomani humans whose destiny it was to rule the stars. The Imperium had
long moved on from such notions. In the Declaration of 17, Emperor Cleon I had declared that Imperial
citizenship was extended to all sophonts. Furthermore, the Imperium had already been a hybrid state of
Solomani, Vilani and, of course, Syleans even before Cleon’s declaration. The Imperium had come to
include Aslan, Vargr and dozens of Minor Races among its citizenry as well. Aslan served in the Imperial
Guard. A Vargr had been appointed Archduke of Antares. The notion of Solomani supremacy seemed
barbaric and outdated to most Imperial citizens no matter their heritage.

102

By the late 900s, the Imperium had a great deal of momentum. It had been centuries since it went through
the crucible of the Civil War. The stable Alkhalikoi Dynasty – whose matriarch Arbellatra was herself
Solomani in origin – had established over three centuries of stable rule. While many Solomani had balked
at the greater inclusion of Vilani nobles in the Moot, the origins and power structure of the Third Imperium
were still very much rooted in Solomani traditions and culture. To many of Solomani origin, the Imperium
was thought of as the far-more-effective successor state to the Rule of Man.
One of the more understated subtexts of the Imperial narrative was its advancement of technology. Before
the Rim War, the Imperium was on the fast track to TL15, two full levels over that of the front-line Solomani.
Coupled with the growing wealth of its worlds and its vast trade routes, it was difficult to argue with the preeminence of Imperial power. It was hard to recruit defectors from a side whose progress and growth was so
clear for all to see. There may have been Solomani sympathisers among the ranks but there were simply
too many reasons to remain loyal to the Third Imperium for most of them to switch sides.

R

