where they remain to the current day. The defeated
Solomani Confederation relocated its capital to Home
in Aldebaran. Admiral Wolfe stationed his fleet there
and was elected Secretary-General.

The Classic Era

With the return of peace to the Imperium, Emperor
Gavin restored the Order of Sol (after first degrading
it in precedence) and appointed Admiral Adair as the
new Archduchess of Sol in 1003. The archduchess at
first administered the affairs of the domain from Muan
Gwi, elevating the standing of the Vegans to new
heights and then eventually moved her offices to the
sector capital at Dingir. The manor of the SecretaryGeneral on Terra was converted into a centre for
diplomacy, dedicated to finding peaceful solutions to
all of the issues that the Imperials and Solomani had
with one another. Adair got started with the long and
arduous task of re-establishing the peerage in the
Domain of Sol and extricating Solomani Movement
cells from the hundreds of worlds that were now under
the Imperial aegis.
Adair formed the Vegan Autonomous District in
1004, cementing the loyalty of a key Solomani Rim
constituent and establishing a firm base of power in the
centre of the sector. In 1005, the archduchess created
the Order of Muan Gwi, which was used to recruit
honourable Vegans to the ranks of the nobility.

The battle lines may have been drawn but the two sides
had little interest in renewing the conflict. The Solomani
had scant hope of removing an entrenched and powerful
Imperium. They would have to be satisfied that their
Confederation remained largely intact even if they had
lost Terra and other key worlds. The vast Imperium had
other fish to fry. It ready time to finally give the frontier
its due. The Spinward Marches was the vanguard of
Imperial expansion and after three Frontier Wars, it was
high time that the region received some attention.

The Authentic Movement reached the Solomani Rim
by 1010 and received a frosty welcome by occupying
Imperial forces and the renascent peerage. There
were concerns that it might foment rebellion among
Solomani citizens who had just come to terms with the
occupation. As it turned out, the effect was quite the
opposite. Many of the people of the Rim acquired a
newfound tolerance and respect for other cultures by
participating in the movement. By 1050, the movement
had acquired as much popularity in the Rim as
anywhere else in Imperial space. While many Solomani
people selected Terran, Rule of Man and Old Earth
Union cultures to emulate, a significant percentage
of the population chose cultures well outside those
boundaries. Some even chose Vilani cultures. The
Authentic Movement helped to pacify the Solomani
Rim and eased the integration of the occupied worlds
into the Imperium.
Upon Gavin’s death in 1031, the throne was passed
to his oldest issue who was crowned Paulo III.
Paulo inherited a stable Imperium and dedicated
his reign to the maintenance of peace. The Meson
Rebellion of 1032 on Khikaba took 12 years to put
down by depleted naval forces but the outcome was
never in doubt and the sentiments expressed by the
rebels were kept from spreading to neighbouring
star systems. By 1045, Imperial intelligence agents
had ferreted out the last remnants of the Phoenix
Project, a Solomani resistance movement on Terra.
The Imperial occupation force ingratiated itself with
the locals by participating in relief, preservation and
reconstruction programs. The occupiers sought to
integrate themselves with Terran culture, becoming
Terrans themselves as best they could. By 1050, all
remaining fringe resistance movements had been

History of the Third Imperium

Adair and Wolfe, once adversaries on the battlefield,
now began a long, cold stare down across the border
between the two polities. The Solomani established a
new reserve, the Home Guard, in 1005 to serve as the
front line of defence for the depleted Confederation.
Solar Shipping, the Solomani megacorporation,
cancelled all lines in the occupied zone. At first there
was very little trans-border activity between the two
polities but it proved impossible to prevent all travel.
Separated families had to be reunited, certain types
of property had to be returned and basic diplomatic
communication was restored.

A fortuitous development of the Gavinian Age was
the advent of the Authentic Movement. The principles
of the movement were developed in 988 by Dr.
Johann Kramm at a university on Shudusham, only
four parsecs from Capital. This movement posited
that the human spirit was diminished in hightechnology societies but that it could be replenished
by celebrating one or more of the myriad cultures
of Charted Space, both current or historical. People
were encouraged to select a culture, study it with
great detail and express themselves through its lens.
Wearing the unique dress of the culture, learning its
language, reading its literature and serving as a sort
of volunteer ombudsman for the culture were deemed
to be activities that would renew the human spirit. The
Authentic Movement became a sensation in the Core
and began to spread to neighbouring sectors as well.

103

