T

brought to the negotiating table and pacified. This event
was celebrated by the reestablishment of the Solomani
Guard Regiment on Capital. Paulo wanted his time as
Emperor to be remembered as another glorious period
of peace and economic growth. Any problems that
came up were handled as efficiently as possible and
without fanfare.

History of the Third Imperium

Paulo’s wife Elbet gave birth to their first child,
Strephon Aella Alkhalikoi, in 1049. At the age of 58,
Paulo was old for a first-time parent but he was far
from a doting one. Strephon was the heir that the
Imperium demanded but he meant little else to his
father. Strephon’s sister, Lydia, was born three years
later in 1052 and was equally neglected. Unfortunately,
Empress Elbet died under mysterious circumstances
in 1053, leaving her two toddlers motherless. Paulo’s
brother, James, was implicated in Elbet’s death but
committed suicide within the year, before he could be
properly tried for his involvement. With their mother
dead and their father indisposed with the burdens of
rulership, Strephon and Lydia did not even have each
other to rely on, as they lived very separate lives and
were only brought together when Imperial events
required it. The two were raised more by their tutors
than any member of the Imperial family.

104

One of the final acts of Paulo’s reign was the
completion of the Second Grand Survey in 1065.
The 75-year project was completed in the Reference
system when data from the survey was downloaded
to newly installed TL15 computer substrates on the
planet. The transportation of all new relics and artefacts
to the Reference archives was completed by 1068.
Paulo basked in the glory of his achievements, having
stewarded the Imperium through difficult post-war
years. He died a contented man in 1071.

Strephon Ascendant

Unlike so many of his predecessors in the Alkhalikoi
line, Strephon was ill-prepared for the throne. Serving
as a midshipman in the Imperial Navy, Strephon was
called home when his father had been reported ill;
he arrived on Capital three days after his father’s
death. Only 21 years old at the time of his coronation,
Strephon had a lot of catching up to do. He had hoped
to have an illustrious naval career before ascending
to the throne but fate dictated otherwise. He spent his
early years as Emperor learning what he would need
to know to rule wisely. Unlike many of his ancestors,
Strephon had very little tutelage from his predecessor.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Hoping to produce an heir more promptly than
his father had, Strephon married Iolanthe
Guuilbataashullibaa in 1079. Iolanthe was the daughter
of the senior duke of Gushemege and reaffirmed the
commitment of the Alkhalikoi line to incorporate Vilani
blood into its heritage. Times had changed. When
Zhakirov married Antiama exactly 400 years earlier, the
powerful Solomani bloc in the Moot were up in arms.
The Solomani Rim War and subsequent Authentic
Movement had changed the Imperial mindset. At long
last the Imperium had come to terms with its complex
historical legacy.
Better educated, and by many accounts more intelligent
than her husband, Iolanthe became a close partner
and valuable counsel. Strephon was lucky to have her.
His reign was about to face its first major challenge. An
incident at the Quar system of the Spinward Marches
in 1082 sparked the Fourth Frontier War, resulting
in numerous naval battles in Jewell and Cronor. Its
final conflict was the Battle of Two Suns, fought in
the depths of space between the Yres and Menorb
systems. Losses to both sides were so devastating
that both Imperium and Zhodani Consulate forces sued
for peace. The fighting lasted only 18 months before
an armistice was signed in 1084, causing the war to
be nicknamed the ‘False War’. By the time word had
arrived at Capital, the fighting was essentially over.
Nevertheless, clever messaging was devised to make
Strephon look like a highly capable commander-inchief. As had so often been the case with the Frontier
Wars, a few systems changed hands and things
returned to the status quo.
A few short years after the war, the Emperor and
Empress produced an heir to the throne. Ciencia
Iphegenia, Grand Princess of the Imperium, was born
in 1088, extending the Alkhalikoi Line.

1105

There are pregnant moments in history that,
unbeknownst to those living in them, are on the verge
of unleashing a torrent of changes and events that
will reshape the very fabric of society, redefining and
rearranging things so drastically that they became
virtually unrecognisable thereafter. The year 1105 is just
such a moment. The Imperium is about to experience a
number of events that will forever change it.
The tension between the Imperium, the Zhodani and
their Outworld Coalition allies has shown no signs
of abating. The Imperium hopes to be prepared for
subsequent Frontier Wars better than it has been

R

