before. There is reason for hope. The Imperial Navy
is devising plans that should guarantee the security of
the Domain of Deneb. However, it will require strong
and capable leaders to carry it out. Duke Norris Aella
Aledon of Regina might be just the man for the job.
The Emperor sees a kindred spirit in the Duke and
hopes to make his acquaintance eventually. Strephon
is less inclined towards the senior Duchess of the
Marches, Delphine Adoriana Muudashir. Born in 979,
the august Duchess Delphine was a child during the
Solomani Rim War and was knighted to the Order of
Starship and Crown in 1018 by Strephon’s grandfather,
Gavin. Regardless of their shared history, Strephon
and Delphine have little in common. He has privately
remarked that she seems a bit too devoted to her
protégé, Admiral Frederick Santanocheev. Now, nearly
126 years old, the duchess’ ambitions seem to be at
odds with those of Norris.

The pace of innovation is reaching new levels.
Several Imperial worlds are now striving to achieve
TL16. The naval weapons research facility on
Sabsee has developed a more powerful small arm:
the FGMP-16. On Ye-lu and Celetron, experiments
in artificial intelligence are creating fully independent
systems and robots that promise to bring new levels
of processing speed and efficiency to Imperial
worlds. Imperial Research Station Zeta on Pashus
in Deneb is close to making a breakthrough in jump
technology. Meanwhile, Vincennes, also in Deneb,
has standardised at TL16, particularly in the realms of
communications and electronics.

Unbeknownst to the rank and file of the Imperium,
Emperor Strephon commissioned the highly
confidential Project Longbow II in 1103. The
previous Longbow had a much smaller scope.
This new phase of the project professes to
use the entire width of the Imperium as its long
baseline, using jump-6 couriers to carry collected
data to Depot in Lishun.

Elsewhere there are other problems to contend with.
While the Battle of Terra ended the Solomani Rim
War a century ago and the Imperium has done a
fine job of integrating the worlds that it conquered,
the enemy is only a few parsecs away. While the
Solomani are still technologically inferior to the
Imperium, there are highly motivated zealots within
their ranks. It would be unwise to underestimate
them. There is unfinished business in the Solomani
Rim and it remains to be seen which side has the
vitality and determination to win should another
major conflict arise in the region. Since 1095,
the Solomani Party has again been allowed to
operate on Terra. Considered a dangerous move by
some, the Imperium believes that after a century,
the occupied worlds have learned the benefits of
Imperial membership. Greater pluralism has been
allowed so that peace may continue.
While the Imperium has its jump-4 x-boat network, and
the navy its jump-6 courier system to communicate
urgent issues, Emperor Strephon still fears a
fragmentation of the empire. Cleon’s dream of a
loyal, honourable and dutiful feudal nobility seems
to be working as intended but there is reason to be
concerned. Strephon is afraid that the disparate
regions of the Imperium desire more localised
government to better serve their needs. He is staunchly
committed to a unified empire and seeks ways to
enhance the bonds that the domains have with Capital.
To this end, he has appointed progressive archdukes
such as Dulinor Astrin Ilethian, men and women who
he believes share his vision and know how best to
serve their domains, all the while maintaining their
commitment to the Imperium as a whole.

History of the Third Imperium

The Domain of Deneb is the future of the Imperium and
Strephon means to serve it and its people far better
than previous Emperors have. The first Alkhalikoi came
from Rhylanor in the Spinward Marches and Strephon
intends to honour the memory of Arbellatra by being
a better custodian of his ancestral homeland. To this
end, Imperial naval strategists have adopted a new
‘elastic defence’ strategy in which colonial reserves are
strengthened and more powerful reinforcements are
stationed nearby in Corridor. Should another Frontier
War occur, the colonial forces need only hold on until
messengers can retrieve the larger, more powerful fleet
elements from Corridor, which will arrive in the nick of
time to vanquish the enemy. The Imperium has also
committed to the concept of the battle rider, sublight
capital ships attached to massive jump tenders. By not
installing jump drives on these spacecraft, they can
be packed with more ammunition and weaponry than
jump-capable naval ships.

LONGBOW II

105

