CORE SECTOR

Visitors to Core often find that it is not at all what they
expected. There is a common misconception that the
entire sector is one big, crowded extension of Capital,
that all of its inhabitants are exorbitantly wealthy with
robots and computers running every aspect of their
lives and that Imperial patriotism runs thicker than
blood in their veins. While there certainly is wealth
to be had in the Core, and Capital does wield a wide
sphere of influence, not every world is a bastion of
technological development, covered in arcologies and
industry, nor does everyone fly the Imperial flag with
nationalist zealotry. It is quite the opposite in many
ways. Core is in fact a disparate and diverse place
where individualism runs rampant and there is little in
the way of consistency or uniformity. This is by design,
if one can truly say that controlled chaos is something
to which the greatest interstellar empire in history
aspires. The Imperium is working as intended.

For those who never manage to travel to the Core, the
myths remain larger than life. This sector is thought
to be a magical place, a hallowed region of space as
unattainable as it is distant. While millions of sophonts
travel among the stars at some point in time, the fact
is that most remain on their worlds of origin for the
duration of their lives. To a belter in the Empty Quarter,
a merchant in the Spinward Marches or a starport
administrator in the Solomani Rim, the Core is just a
place seen in holovideos or read about in daily news
feeds. Some Travellers dream of seeing its wonders for
a lifetime but only a privileged few actually make the
long journey to the Core and Capital, perhaps affording
them a visit to the Grand Palace of Arbellatra itself.
The reality is that the Core is much like any other
Imperial sector. It is a wealthy sector but not the
wealthiest. It is populous but not the most populated. It
has technological wonders aplenty but there are worlds
elsewhere in the Imperium that have achieved levels
beyond those of the Core. The sector certainly has a
distinct character and unique features. It is home to
Capital where the current and all former Emperors have
sat upon the Iridium Throne and where the nobility
meet at the Moot Spire. It is home to Reference, a
world dedicated to the retention of all information ever
collected by Humaniti. Some of the most powerful
starships in existence have been built at its Imperial

106

Navy Depot in a star system that was touched by the
Ancients. Even after over 1,000 years, the Core’s
economy is among the mightiest in the Imperium. More
goods are exported from its industrial worlds than from
those of any other sector.
The Sylean Main is the Core’s richest trade route,
connecting Capital to the majority of the sector.
Achenaar Antilles currently dominates shipping in
the sector but the megacorporate lines are engaged
with them in fierce economic combat for control
of the sector’s rich export business. While the big
corporations duke it out for control, there is plenty of
business for enterprising free traders to make a living.
Several alien races hail from the Core, including the
Ssienjhiovla, an aquatic species who have integrated
themselves into Imperial society and the sagely but
bloviating Bhu’oovaakaylaa, large and phlegmatic
and virtually unseen beyond the confines of their
homeworld. The Oo-ne-beto-pon-tee or ‘whistlers’ as
some call them, a strange and potentially dangerous
species, are under the watchful eye of the Imperial
Navy on the isolated world of Night. Their ability to
affect the minds of their human cohabitants is cause for
concern. The dead race known as the Shingans were
wiped from existence nearly 800 years ago, allegedly
for having similar abilities. A recently discovered race
called the Ganmeids have been found in the oceans of
the windswept world of Indshiim Ganme, a mere seven
parsecs from Capital. The Core is also home to several
human Minor Races, none more famous or influential
than the Syleans, whose unique philosophy enabled
Humaniti to arise from the ashes of the Long Night.
Despite the presence of many human and alien
races, the Vilani and Solomani have by far had the
greatest impact on the sector. The Vilani first arrived
approximately 7,500 years ago and called the sector
Ukan. They left their mark in many ways, none more
obvious than the many Vilani-named star systems.
During the Interstellar Wars, the Terrans invaded
and renamed many worlds, left some names intact
and corrupted others with Galanglic influences. To
some extent, the names of the Core’s worlds tell
the tale. The Terrans burst into the First Imperium in
leaps and bounds, annexing and conquering high-

