value worlds and leaving lesser worlds in their wake.
Many diamonds in the rough were overlooked during
the invasion, which explains why many rich worlds
still retain Vilani names and cultural heritage. After
thousands of years of intermixing and the intercession
of the Long Night, the Core is neither Vilani nor
Solomani but somewhere in between.
The sector is a dynamic and ever-changing realm,
and the structure of the Imperium does not lend itself
to stasis. Individual worlds are free to determine their
own destinies. There is a great deal of conflict and
strife in the Core, just as there is anywhere else in the
Imperium. Amidst all the wealth, gleaming palaces
and gargantuan starships there is poverty, conflict,
avarice, violence and every other human foible on
display. This makes for a patchwork of freewheeling
anarchies, authoritarian regimes, would-be utopias,
struggling colonies, balkanised jigsaw puzzles and just
about every other type of society that one can imagine.
There is a greater concentration of high-tech and highpopulation worlds than on the frontiers. High-population
worlds tend to have complex governments and high
Law Levels as well. Authoritarianism runs strong in the
heart of the Imperium.
The Core presents unique and exciting challenges
for a group of Travellers. As one approaches
Capital, the trappings of empire become increasingly
evident. The burden of serving and protecting the
Imperial throne world creates political and military

intrigue throughout most of the Core and Kaskii
subsectors. Branches extend from Capital like the
nervous system of some great organism, making
neighbouring worlds an extension of its will. Nobles
jockey for position in fiefs near the throne world.
Because of their proximity to Capital and easy
access to the Moot, the nobility here wield an
outsized influence.
Portions of two defeated empires – the Interstellar
Confederacy and the Chanestin Kingdom –
and other worlds retain some semblance of
independence and a distinct cultural flavour but most
have been fully integrated into the Imperium. This
does not mean that the sector is devoid of conflict.
New squabbles have taken the place of the old,
most centred on territorial disputes between various
political rivals, noble houses, megacorporations
and trade guilds. The Emperor and peerage watch
brewing disputes carefully. The ties that bind the
Imperium can be tenuous.
The Core is well defended by its numbered and
sector fleets, which are the most powerful in all of the
Imperium. The Core Sector Fleet is headquartered at
Depot with a goodly portion of its fleet elements based
at Capital. The Imperial Interstellar Scout Service has
its bureaucratic headquarters at Reference, where
it also berths multiple scout cruisers. Reference is
also well-defended by the Imperial Navy due to its
strategic importance.

CORE SECTOR
107

