APGE

The Apge subsector is dominated by the Apge
system, which contains over 80 percent of the
subsector’s inhabitants. Apge is the capital and is
situated along a ring of star systems that are fittingly
called the Apge Cluster, which is a tributary of a
longer jump-1 main that extends into neighbouring
Sanches, dipping into the Mekee and Perite
subsectors as well.
Duchess Azabaka Ashushashmi of Apge enjoys
her role as custodian of a Core subsector but is
very sensitive about the status of her world and its
importance to the sector. The worlds in the rimward
half of Apge are economically dominated by the
Iiradu system in the neighbouring Dagudashaag
sector. Restrained and conservative Apge has a
difficult time wooing some of its more impressionable
citizens away from Iiradu. The Apgeans are staunch
traditionalists who favour a Vilani-style caste society
in which everyone knows their place. Conversely,
there is a great deal of economic mobility on Iiradu,
both up and down the scale. The fact is most
Iiraduans do not get rich. Wealth gravitates to a very
select few but the stories of immigrants who go there
and acquire immeasurable wealth are seductive.
Duchess Ashushashmi does what she can to offer an
alternative life path in which tradition, stability and
service have greater value than obtaining riches. She
puts immense pressure on the Apge Bureau of Life,
Environment and Resources (ABLER) to ‘get out
and spread the word’ about how wonderful the Apge
Cluster is and how it is absolutely brimming with
economic potential. Despite their catchy acronym,
ABLER is in fact a traditionalist-style Vilani bureau,
the members of whom would just as soon focus their
efforts on the difficult job of managing a challenging
planet without the interference of a busybody

108

duchess. However, the duchess is quite persistent
and does manage to persuade members of ABLER to
take on public-relations missions from time-to-time.
The Travellers might encounter these exhausted and
unenthusiastic bureaucrats during their visits to
the subsector.
The work done at Research Station Beta and the
Naval Science Division Regional Headquarters on
Sabsee are presented as examples of what can be
achieved when Imperial citizens put their personal
ambitions aside and dedicate themselves to the
greater good. Scientists there are hard at work
developing high-tech weaponry systems that are
used to defend the Imperium. They are on the verge
of a significant breakthrough in the field of fusion
weapons technology and are about to introduce the
FGMP-16, the smaller, lighter and deadlier successor
of the FGMP-15.
Technological innovation has always been part of the
lifeblood of Apge. At the dawn of the Third Imperium,
Cleon Zhunastu’s patented Fusion Plus technology
was first employed in the Azimuth system, where it
was successfully used to provide power for a light
carrier and squadron of gunships deployed to combat
pirates in the subsector. Azimuth is little more than
a naval outpost in modern times but its highport is
decorated with several mixed-media murals and
interactive displays that reprise the battle to the
tune of overly dramatic and slightly too loud original
compositions from the Apge Symphony Orchestra.
Apge is defended by the 26th Fleet, with squadrons
more or less evenly distributed among its worlds. A
larger contingent is present at Sabsee to ensure the
safety and security of its research facilities.

