Apge

At one time an important world of the First Imperium,
Apge has experienced a tumultuous history. The fall of
the Ziru Sirka caused a radical shift in the importance
of various star systems. Apge weathered the storm
by becoming an important stopover on the long route
between Vland and Hub, the capital of the Rule of Man.
During the Long Night, Apge reverted to its Vilani roots,
declined to a lower Tech Level and adopted a more
conservative culture.
A resurrected Vilani nobility returned to the practice
of appointing the third-born child of the family as heir.
This practice propagated to other tiers of society
and resulted in a massive population boom. Under
normal circumstances, this hallowed Vilani practice
would precipitate the migration of first- and secondborn offspring to other worlds, thereby serving as an
engine for colonisation. However, during the Long
Night, migration was not an option. The population of
Apge flowered without access to enough resources
to easily provide for everyone. The management of
food production and processing became of utmost
importance on this marginally habitable world. Apge
is tidally locked with Aseladar, its red dwarf star, and
only its twilight zone has a mild climate with its bright
and dark sides less so. Nevertheless, billions of people
were forced to live in all regions of the world as well as
numerous orbital and Lagrange point artificial habitats.
Apgeans have also settled the majority of the system’s
other worlds and even today a large belter community
mines the planetoids of the Pukushkilaam Belt in the
outer system, despite the fact that it has been largely
tapped out from thousands of years of exploitation.

Over 90 percent of the surface of Castell is covered
by water. While its land masses are unremarkable and
have only a few small settlements, its ocean floors
are rich in valuable minerals and metals. For most of
the world’s history, the majority of the population has
lived in undersea arcologies. After a large seismic
disturbance in 758, the Myteria-Seru arcology
flooded and crumbled, tragically killing all 1.5 million
inhabitants. To prevent a recurrence, the government
established draconian laws governing all aspects of
life in the world’s remaining undersea cities. Despite
the overly rigorous laws, the world’s leader retains the
confidence of his people. Citizens are educated from
birth to respect the artificial environments in which they
live and to believe that strict control of every action is
necessary to ensure their safety.
The overzealous safety regulations have had an
adverse effect on population growth. Among Castell’s
many laws are some that strictly control reproduction.
The goal was to maintain replacement level population
numbers but instead they have seen a steady decline.
A full 350 years after the accident, the population
is approximately 10 percent of what it was. To
prevent complete social and economic collapse,
the government has begun to allow offworlders to
immigrate to Castell, allowing them to build floating
cities, mining submarines and establish a nomadic
ocean-going culture. The one requirement is that they
participate in Castell’s essential mining industries. The
newcomers are virtually unrestricted by Castell’s high
Law Level. The state-run media restricts the natives’
knowledge of how the immigrants live but some of them
have found out nonetheless. The government is now
engaged in a two-prong attack to set things right: on the
one hand, they have redoubled their efforts to restrict
the flow of information to the natives, and on the other
they have begun to impose laws on the immigrants that
they are loath to accept.

Apge

While Apge has once again arisen as a powerful
interstellar high-technology society, it retains a
disciplined and reserved culture. The advent of the
Third Imperium resurrected Apge’s importance and its
Vilani-style bureaucracy reinvented itself as a key link
between Vland and Core. While members of Apge’s
ruling class have accepted their roles as Imperial
citizens, the world has maintained a distinctively Vilani
flavour. Galanglic is universally spoken but Vilani is the
language of choice when not engaging with offworlders.

Castell

111

