PERITE

The motto of the Perite subsector might very well
be ‘Look to Spinward’. Regardless of its proximity
to Capital, Perite has a distinctly Vilani flavour. After
the fall of the Rule of Man three millennia ago, many
of the worlds in Perite shook off the yolk of Terran
dominance, in some cases violently, and returned
to their roots. During the Long Night, populations on
many worlds collapsed; the societies that remained
returned to the Vilani language, traditions and
rituals that had guided their lives for thousands of
years before the disastrous Interstellar Wars and
subsequent Rule of Man. After contact with the
Sylean Federation in approximately -450 and the reemergence of interstellar trade, Perite became more
of a hybrid culture but even today visitors can see the
tension that exists between cosmopolitan Imperial
society and traditional Vilani boroughs.
The Karnika system is called the ‘Gateway to Core’
and serves as an important link on the route between
Vland and Capital. Duke Dagalu Kiinlarsuush
Rikhummi makes his home there but spends a great
deal of time travelling the worlds of the subsector with
his charismatic wife, Asasshaa, a woman of noble
lineage who traces her heritage back thousands of
years to the dynasties that governed the region during
the era of the Ziru Sirka. The duke himself is of mixed
origin but has adopted a Vilani surname in order to
endear himself with the Vilani-majority population.
Only his nearest friends and relations know him by his
birth name, Evander Konig.

how to field process the animals, using each and every
bit for consumption and other uses. The hosts of the
most popular shows are huge celebrities in Perite and
Apge but less well known elsewhere.
Perite’s stellar density is spotty and includes several
inconvenient gaps in its astrography. Tramp traders
working their way into the lucrative Core market
typically operate far traders or subsidised merchants
equipped with collapsible fuel tanks for crossing the
empty space between its star clusters.
Perite is defended by the 51st Fleet, based in Karnika,
Mishaar, Shazeku and Uumeaxan with squadrons
posted at numerous systems. All of the ships of the
fleet bear Vilani names, which makes them easy to
pick out during joint exercises elsewhere in the Core.
The flagship of the fleet is a heavy cruiser that is called
Khidenuum iru Argukege, the ‘Duty of the Wise’.

Unlike some members of the nobility who prefer to
lie low and manage their holdings, the duke and
duchess are celebrities in Perite, which has a free and
progressive culture. Law Levels are mostly low and
government interference is minimal on most worlds.
While Perite celebrates its kinship with nearby Vland,
the economy of Perite is much more heavily linked with
that of the Lishun sector.
A popular entertainment trend in the subsector is a
rash of ‘Shugilii shows’, holovideo series that celebrate
the Vilani tradition of food processing. The hosts of
the shows travel the subsector, showing people how
to process flora and fauna from its worlds. The most
popular of them is ‘Shugilii Shimiirkhuki’, in which the
host hunts a multitude of animal species and shows

115

