the IISS extended offers to the corporate community
and – much to their chagrin – drew the interest of
SuSAG, which established a permanent presence on
the planet. As it turns out, the IISS and SuSAG do
not get along well and have recently stopped sharing
their findings with each other. Most of the population
on Akussanja are members of the Scout Service,
employees of SuSAG, or workers from various
companies present to support the two organisations.
As the rift between the IISS and SuSAG has
gotten worse, the service companies have found
themselves caught in the middle. Accusations have
been made on both sides that the service companies
include spies for one side or the other. Unfortunately,
the situation has continued to get worse and shows
no signs of abating.

Gakxaal

A popular destination for Travellers who enjoy
roughing it in the great outdoors, Gakxaal is stitched
with an unusual number of tall mountain ranges. The
world has been largely overlooked because of its
high degree of tectonic activity and pervasive species
of fungoids, viruses and bacterial masses. Evolution
on the planet never managed to produce complex
animal species but microbial life runs rampant in its
oceans, seas and low-lying valleys. However, little of
its native life may be found at an elevation of more
than 1,000 metres. The planet has a dense, highpressure atmosphere with significant carbon dioxide,
sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide taints spewed
from its dozens of active volcanos.

During the Long Night, Shazeku was governed by a
pantheist religion known as the Bamshimbakkada.
The priesthood remained in power for thousands
of years until it was toppled by a revolution a
few decades after being integrated into the
Imperium. The remains of the Bamshimbakkada
are everywhere. Immense temples, state buildings,
monuments and other public works have been
preserved and converted for use by the modern,
high-tech society. Others have been made into
museums and historical sites for tourists.
There were 14 deities in the Bamshimbakkada
pantheon, each of whom were represented by a
planet or star in the Shazeku system. Shazeku’s two
red dwarf stars, Aadii and Kuusi, are approximately
one light year apart and each orbited by six planets.
The Bamshimbakkadans believed that the worlds of
Aadii, including Shazeku itself, represented various
aspects of goodness and virtue. Conversely, the
worlds of Kuusi represented vice, the underworld
and other evils. While the populations of the worlds
orbiting Kuusi all died out during the Long Night,
they have since been repopulated. To this day the
Shazekuans are superstitious about Kuusi and
generally avoid engaging in trade, diplomacy or other
exchanges with its worlds in spite of the fact that
they debunked the Bamshimbakkadan religion over
1,000 years ago.
The Imperial Navy Base on Shazeku is an
important one. The world is host to several small
craft construction yards that manufacture fighters,
armed pinnaces and modular cutters for the navy.
Shazeku’s solitary moon is a test site for new
prototypes where some of the sector’s top test pilots
put these spacecraft through their paces before they
are sold to the Imperial Navy and various planetary
navies. Naval architects have recently been seen
at the ‘Black Cube’, a highly secure research
installation where the navy is said to be working
with sector-wide corporation Hodan-Barley on a new
breed of starfighter.

perite

Gakxaal is off the beaten path and poses a
challenging environment for long-term settlement.
The starport is rudimentary, little more than terraces
and pueblo-like structures carved out of limestone.
The landing pads are too small and unstable to
dock a starship but many can support small craft
and gravitic vehicles. A tourist service in the planet’s
northern hemisphere offers transportation via airship
between some of its more popular mountain ranges.
Trained guides and mountaineers are available to
show intrepid Travellers the many wonders of the
planet. One of its more popular attractions is the
Glass Valley, a canyon system with billions of loose
olivine and pyroxene stones that have been cleansed
of dust and regolith by various bacterial species. The
canyons glisten with the green and purple hues of
the stones and cast a hypnotic prismatic effect when
Gakxaal’s star shines directly upon them.

Shazeku

119

