T

The Annililik Run

The legendary ‘silk road’ between Vland and Capital
is known as the Annililik Run. The route between the
two worlds was of great importance at the dawn of the
Third Imperium, linking the two capitals during an era
when the intervening space was strewn with pirates and
the remains of civilisations blighted by the Long Night.
Contact between Sylea and Vland was established
centuries before the advent of the Third Imperium but
few ship captains had the nerve to travel between the
two worlds. Traders could make a decent living plying
routes in the relative safety of their own pocket empires
and only those with a lust for fame and adventure
attempted the Annililik Run. Those who completed it with
their hides intact became celebrities, many of whom
leveraged their fame to acquire greater social standing
and prosperity.

perite

The route was perilous for a number of reasons, not
the least of which was the distance across reaches of
space that had not been travelled much for centuries.
Right out of the gates from Vland, you have a number
of star systems with no gas giants, which makes
wilderness refuelling a challenge. While hydrogen
may also be obtained by extracting it from liquid
water on planets with a hydrosphere, there are often
regulations that prevent this practice on inhabited
worlds. There are several minor stellar chasms along
the way as well and chokepoints at the Vliishuug (now
called Inader) and Karnika systems. Savvy traders
took bypasses, of course, but every deviation from
the main route meant more jumps and thus more
exposure to potential pirate attacks, equipment failure
or other perils. Many traders became lost along the
route, some never to be seen or heard from again.
Lost traders were often said to have vanished into
the ‘Annililik Pyramid’, a mysterious phenomenon that
mercilessly gobbled up wayward starships.

120

The Annililik Run became somewhat safer as the Long
Night came to an end and Capital benefited immensely
from increased traffic along the route. Linking old
Vland with newly minted Capital lent the fledgling Third
Imperium an air of validity at a time when its prospects
for success were very much in doubt. It also enabled
Capital to seed Vland with Fusion Plus technology,
one of the cornerstones of Cleon Zhunastu’s outreach
programme to the worlds around Sylea. As the route
became safer, larger and more capable merchant
convoys began to make the Run. This resulted not only
in the enrichment of many merchant lines but also in a

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

cultural exchange between empires old and new, laying
the groundwork for the eventual incorporation of Vland
into the Third Imperium.
In modern times, a race between Vland and Capital
is held once every four gurkula (a Vilani ‘year’, each
of which is approximately 478.7 standard days) to
commemorate the Annililik Run. The two worlds alternate
as starting and finish lines for the race; after an Annililik
Run is completed in one direction, it reverses course the
next time the event is held. If ever there were a fitting
interstellar analogue to the ancient Terran fable of the
‘Tortoise and the Hare’, this race is it. Ships are limited to
jump-2 and up to 600 tons. The race has dual objectives,
the first of which is to make the Run in an allotted period
of time. The distance between Vland and Capital is 60
parsecs and a jump-2 ship can make it between the
two systems in about 31 jumps if the most direct route
is taken. Contestants are expected to make the run in
60–75 weeks. Late arrivals are disqualified. The second
objective is to make money. The Annililik Run is, after all,
a commemoration of a famous trade route. Besides that,
there are very few contestants who have the Credits to
travel so far without making money to cover expenses
along the way. Contestants may take on freight, mail,
speculative cargo and passengers. The most reputable
ships are often fully booked with mid and high passages
before they even begin the Run.
The Annililik Run is more about efficiency than speed.
The rules allow for contestants to purchase fuel at
registered starports or extract it from gas giants,
comets, icy planetoids and other natural resources.
Each jump must be to an inhabited star system, so
leapfrogging between worlds by jumping into empty
space and using fuel from a collapsible fuel tank is not
allowed. Fuel costs are recorded and subtracted from
one’s totals at the end of the race. Some star systems
along the route are backwaters that see little traffic
when the race is not being run. Not surprisingly, many
of them take advantage of the situation and have been
known to price gouge for fuel, maintenance and other
services. To combat this, some contestants scout the
route ahead of time and seed it with fuel caches to
reduce costs and speed up their transit times. This
practice is strictly forbidden by the rules but has proven
to be difficult to enforce.
One would think that the modern Third Imperium would
not be a place for superstition and myth but tales of the
Annililik Pyramid persist. Very few ships are lost during
the event but those that do disappear are commonly
believed to have been consumed by the Pyramid. There

R

