are rational explanations for most disappearances:
deviating too far off the main route and failing to return,
quitting the race, engine failure and piracy to name just
a few. While the latter is extremely rare in the civilised
heart of the Imperium, the high amount of traffic passing
along the Run makes it too tempting to pass up for those
of a predatory nature. Most of the culprits are merely
opportunistic part-time villains who look for the weak
among the herd and strike where they can, victimising
unarmed ships that stray off the beaten path.
Despite the competitive nature of the event, many ship
crews engage in a level of camaraderie along the way.
Contestants meet each other at starport bars to tell
tall tales, gossip about fellow competitors and trade
rumours. However, not all exchanges are friendly. The
crews of competing ships often try to misdirect their
opponents with red herrings to throw them off the main
route. False stories are planted about big scores to be
had, low-priced fuel, minable comets that turn out not
to be there, essentially anything that can slow down
or befuddle other racers. Wise and experienced ship
captains learn to separate truth from fiction. Competing
crews often develop enmity with one another and
friendly competition sometimes morphs into heated
rivalries. Many a starport brawl has broken out between
rivals along the route. In extreme cases, this escalates
into a bout of ship combat but firing upon one another is
a severe breach of the rules and grounds for immediate
disqualification, so it rarely happens.

There are many distractions for the contestants,
especially the most famous ones and those who are
leading the pack. Media outlets flock to their ships to get
the latest news and many worlds roll out the proverbial
red carpet as the ships make their way along the Run.
Worlds like Karnika – generally considered the gateway
to the Core for race participants – create a festive
environment including armed escorts and a ‘parade path’
from the 100-diameter limit to the highport or downport.
With all the pomp and circumstance, it is easy for a
contestant to get side-tracked; only those with the utmost
degree of professionalism know best how to manage the
media, politicians, fans and all of the other distractions
with grace and aplomb. Corporate-sponsored ships are
expected to engage with the public to some degree.
Petulant captains and crews can lose their sponsorships
if they are overly curt or rude.
Reaching the finish line is just the beginning. Until the
75th week has passed, the locals at Capital or Vland
watch and wait as more and more contestants roll in.
A leader board forms, ranking the contestants with an
algorithm based on the speed and efficiency with which
they made the Run along with a measure of their profits.
There are many categories to win but the top award
goes to the ship that achieved the best balance of speed
and net income. The Grand Champion is given an
enormous cash prize and gains fame and fortune to last
a lifetime.
For some, making the Annililik Run is a once-ina-lifetime adventure, a break from the norm and
an adventure they will never forget. After a Run is
completed, most contestants return to their lives as
crewmembers on liners, freighters and tramp traders.
For others, the Annililik Run is a way of life. Many of
them establish a migratory lifestyle around the event.
For example, a contestant might make the Run to
Capital and then spend the intervening years before
the next race plying the trade routes of the Core, only
to come back to Capital to prepare for the next race.
When they arrive in Vland, more than four garkula
later, they ply the routes of Vland for a while and so
forth. The Annililik Run has a culture and tradition all
its own that seems to have captured the imagination
of Imperial citizens. Its popularity seems to grow with
each passing year.

perite

As the event has gained in popularity, corporate
sponsorships have become a big boon to Travellers
who make the Annililik Run. Corporations tend to
sponsor only proven winners, contestants who have
made the Run in the past and shown well. Contestants
sponsored by the top corporations typically sweep the
main categories of the event. Their ships are highly
maintained, possess the best technology available and
have skilled, well-trained crews. The event garners so
much media attention that participating corporations
gain a great deal of publicity simply from having their
logos adorn the hulls of sponsored ships. While collusion
between contestants is prohibited, those who are
sponsored by the same corporation get away with a few
subtle advantages. Most of them run analytics software
that tracks their opponents and shares the data among
other ships that have the same sponsor. Independent
tramp traders have none of these advantages but some
still manage to show well by employing a combination
of skill, cleverness and more than a little chutzpah.
It should be noted that not all corporate sponsors
are on the up and up. Some are fraudulent or shady
front organisations that take Credits from would-be

contestants and others are failing companies that fail
to provide the promised support. Travellers must take
caution when establishing a relationship with a potential
sponsor. There are private investigation firms on both
Vland and Capital whose specialty is investigating
sponsors but their services do not come cheap.

121

