AMEROS

Ameros has two distinctive features: the rimward tail
of the extensive Lishun Main, which wends its way
through Ameros in serpentine fashion and proceeds
into the Shinkan subsector; and the Ameros Rift, a
broad stellar gap that most starships cannot cross with
a single jump.

political opponents in an effort to bring them in line with
Khizunni dictates. The High Captain of the Khizuuni
Supreme Council has made veiled threats that he might
authorise the invasion of some of the subsector’s more
troublesome worlds, all for the cause of establishing a
safer, more prosperous Imperial order, of course.

The coreward portion of the subsector is dominated
by the capital at Khizuun. The Khizuuni see
themselves as the rock upon which the Lishun sector
breaks and Core begins. To be a world of the Core is
to be an extension of Capital as far as the Khizuuni
are concerned and they believe that Lishunians
must be ‘cleansed’ before entering the hallowed
worlds of the Core. Entering at Khizuun – which
many Travellers do because of its rich markets and
convenient location – foreign starships are reminded
that they are no longer in ‘the provinces’ but have
entered the proverbial gatehouse of the Emperor.
Khizuun’s intrusive planetary navy, whose uniform
is intentionally similar to that of the Imperial Navy,
attempts to inspect every single ship that enters the
realm, despite the impossibility of actually doing
so. The Khizuuni are effectively trying to serve as a
protective membrane through which visitors might
transform themselves into respectable citizens of the
Imperium. For their part, Lishunian traders and other
visitors see the Khizuuni as a nuisance but not one
that is entirely unfamiliar; Lishun is no stranger to
authoritarian governments and most just see it as a
cost of doing business.

While Ameros is an old and long-civilised subsector, it
has somehow managed to retain several worlds with
virtually unspoiled wildernesses. The frozen water
world of Erkiim, the bountiful twilight band of Luuni Miu
and the recently opened reserve world of Lagaashin
are a few examples. These worlds are popular
destinations for tourists provided that they can ignore
the invasive presence of the subsector capital.

The Imperial Navy’s 69th Fleet is headquartered at
Khizuun with squadrons in several other systems
and two BatRons semi-permanently stationed at
Nimluin. Likewise, the Scout Service maintains a
large presence on Khizuun, where they supervise the
construction of x-boats, tenders and survey craft for
the way station on Gemi.
The intensity of Khizuuni culture has had an effect
on many of its neighbours, mostly by making them a
little neurotic. There are several worlds with Amber
Zone designations in Ameros, many of which suffer
from varying degrees of political instability. Like a nosy
and vigilant watchdog, Khizuun recklessly intrudes
upon their affairs with intelligence agents emplaced
throughout the subsector. These agents subvert
governments, foster insurgencies and assassinate

124

Ameros

Over 50 years ago, megacorporation Hortalez et Cie,
LIC underwrote an ambitious terraforming project on
Ameros, whose goal it was to give the planet a thin
atmosphere and 10-percent hydrosphere within the
century. Purportedly they would transform the world
without dropping any comets and planetoids from
orbit, normally the linchpin of any terraforming project.
Metamorph, the fledgling firm in charge of the project,
have employed an experimental combination of
biochemical, geological and gravitic techniques to get
the job done, eschewing more traditional means but at
far greater expense.
The results have not justified the hype thus far. With
the project more than half complete, Ameros only has
a trace atmosphere and negligible hydrosphere, all
of which is currently locked up in equatorial ice caps.
Hortalez et Cie is upset about the lack of progress but
Metamorph scientists have assured them that results
are coming. Metamorph contends that the first several
decades of their revolutionary approach are preparatory
and that the majority of the results will not appear until
the very end of the project.
A competing firm has recently offered to come in and
finish the job, proposing to scour the system’s Oort cloud
for cometary bodies and other material with which to
bombard Ameros, thereby thickening its atmosphere
and providing water. Using less fancy technology, they
believe that they can free up water in subterranean

