T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

efficient technological means were imported. While
the kovil does not object to being led or ridden,
attempts to train it to charge or behave aggressively
have failed miserably. The animal is able to manage
its pain centres, so corporal punishment and training
techniques are ineffective. If badly wounded, the
animal will attempt to flee and might trample anyone
caught in its path but it will not otherwise attempt to
harm humans. Kovils are rarely used as beasts of
burden anymore, but they are still frequently seen
grazing the fields and meandering through villages
looking for food.

ameros

Unnagilu

128

The Unnagilu belt was host to small outposts for most
of its history until the late 650s when belters struck
rich deposits of iridium, ruthenium and rhodium,
causing a rush to the system. Since then, the belt
has been heavily exploited but belters continue to
actively search for lodes of the rare metals among
its millions of asteroids. Sternmetal Horizons was the
first megacorporation to purchase major claims in
the belt and has the longest-running presence in the
system. Upstart mining firm, Delgado Trading, LIC,
came onto the scene in the mid-1050s. The two firms
now battle it out for supremacy, snatching up claims
as they arise and scouring the belt for new strikes
with arrays of mining drones. Things got nasty when
the two corporations started deploying weaponised
drones to disable and often outright destroy each
other’s drones and other equipment. They kept their
little war a secret until one of them inadvertently
destroyed a seeker starship that was owned by
an independent belter. Unnagilu’s government got
involved but its representative democracy had been
corrupted by the influential megacorporations and was
unable to resolve the dispute. The government was
dissolved having lost the confidence of its people. The
Imperial Navy threatened to intervene before things
got out of hand so the two firms hired mercenary
forces to secure their strikes and keep the peace. The
mercenaries have been put into the unlikely role of de
facto governors of the system and established military
rule in the belt and on the system’s other worlds and
gas giant moons. Mercenary commanders working
for both sides effectively collude with one another
in order to maintain the status quo. While they are
ill-suited to the tasks of government, a tense peace
remains in place in the system. The Imperium is ready
to intervene and has threatened to apply an Amber
Zone designation to Unnagilu, which would likely be
disastrous for all involved.

Animal

Hits

Speed

Kovil’s Ox

85

8m

Skills

Melee (natural) 2, Recon 1, Survival 1

Attacks

Trample (4D)

Traits

Armour (+6), Tough, Large (+2)

Behaviour

Herbivore, Grazer

It is difficult to make a living as an independent belter
in this environment but that does not deter many from
trying. Independents – or ‘indies’ as they are known
– make up 8–10 percent of the belter population in
Unnagilu. The indies chafe at the arbitrary interference
of mercenary security forces but there is little they can
do about it. Many are taking their seekers elsewhere to
avoid getting caught in the crossfire but dreams of hitting
a big beltstrike have kept the indie community alive in
Unnagilu’s belt.

R

