The scout base on Unnagilu includes one of the
service’s primary zero-G training facilities. The scouts
have sectioned off a region of the belt for the purpose
of training its members in the finer points of vacc suit
and zero-G operations. While its official designation
is IISS Base 096G-1117, the scouts affectionately
refer to it as ‘Camp Space Jockey’. The majority
of scouts present for training are from the
Exploration and Survey branches with a
minority from the Communications branch.
The asteroids inhabited by the scouts have
been tapped of their most valuable metals
and minerals, which prevents them from being
contested by the megacorporations or indies.
The scouts also have a base on Ordri, one of
the moons of the system’s innermost gas giant.
Despite Unnagilu’s problems, centuries of
settlement have created a thriving civilisation
in the belt. Hundreds of hollowed out asteroids
are now home to populations of belters,
corporate employees and the employees of
the companies and small businesses that
are required to provide services for the
them all. Most of these artificial habitats
are run quite well by local councils who
are in the process of building a new
system government and drafting a
constitution for Unnagilu that excludes
the bickering megacorporations from
having an influence.

IISS EVA Suit

ameros

The Scout Service EVA suit is a hardier, more wellequipped version of its standard vacc suit. The suit is
designed to handle multiple challenging and hazardous
working environments with improved heat and radiation
shielding, internal grav-assist, precise handling and
extended life support for up to 48 hours. The equipment
consists of two components: the vacc suit itself,
which may be worn in non-vacuum, standard-gravity
environments; and the EVA rig which is a heavy, multipurpose apparatus that the suit clips into.
The rig includes a set of waldos for sample collection
and several sealed storage containers to store them
in. Its advanced life-support gear is designed to make
operating in the suit very comfortable. The suit closely
monitors the occupant’s vital signs and has internal
injectors to provide first aid, anti-rad medicine and
stimulants for long EVAs.
Item

Protection

TL

Rad

Kg

Cost

Required Skill

IISS EVA Suit

+12

12

150

14

Cr150000

Vacc Suit 1

129

