SHINKAN

The flow of interstellar trade and travel does not
bestow equal benefits to all the worlds of the Core.
Shinkan is a case in point, an important subsector
but it has always been a bit of a backwater. Sitting at
the nexus of four major Imperial sectors, it has the
potential to become a shining pearl of the realm but
things simply have not played out that way thus far.
Shinkan was the site of many Vilani ‘reserve worlds’,
planets that – thousands of years ago – were marked
for future development. Few of them were even
given a proper name other than an alphanumeric
designation. For this reason, many worlds in the
subsector do not bear Vilani names but instead those
of the Terrans, who swept through the subsector
as a conquering force during the later stages of
the Interstellar Wars. Besides naming them, the
Terrans and subsequent Rule of Man did little with
these untapped treasures and they were eventually
inherited by the Third Imperium who finally began to
develop them.
The seat of government for Shinkan is at Ninua,
which shows little interest in managing subsector
affairs, making its worlds a loose confederation at
best. The systems of Shinkan are rarely cooperative,
often contentious and in a few cases downright
hostile to one another. The aloof Ninuans are
constantly struggling with their own internal political
problems and generally regarded as a nuisance by
their neighbours. Ninua is jokingly referred to as
the anshikaam naimiiu saarpuhii, loosely translated
as ‘the world which looks away’. Indeed it does but
Ninua just might find that while its attentions are
diverted inward, the remainder of its worlds have
moved on without it.
The flow of trade from neighbouring Fornast and
Antares passes into the Core through Shinkan, which
has created a caste of nouveau riche merchants
on many of its worlds. An abundance of recently
constructed high-tech starports along the Shinkan
Main are signs of its burgeoning economy. Ishnuunar,

130

despite appearances, channels more wealth into
the Core than any other world in the subsector.
Ishnuunar’s kleptocratic government, collapsing
infrastructure and disastrous Tech Level seem to be
signs of a world in freefall but in fact opportunities
abound there. The powerful and exorbitantly wealth
Ishnuunari merchant guilds run the system like a
syndicate of crime families. The guilds have their
hands in just about every business venture on the
planet and their tendrils have begun to spread to
other star systems. The fastidious landed gentry of
Gekhuu and Derku have done what they can to stave
off guild infiltration but have not proven to be up to the
task thus far. The three worlds – which have become
known as ‘the Triad` – have begun to fight proxy wars
on the hapless smaller worlds of the subsector. Most
believe that it is only a matter of time before these
conflicts spread to the Triad worlds themselves.
The sector-wide Achenaar Antilles line, which
dominates shipping in just about every other
subsector of the Core, has found it difficult to
penetrate the byzantine markets of Shinkan. Their
efforts to establish a regional headquarters at
Dureija have met with one disaster after another. The
regional director of the corporation has accused the
Triad of sabotage. The powerful trade line has been
lobbying the Imperial bureaucracy for assistance but
so far they have received little help. It seems that the
Imperium does not want to rock the boat in Shinkan,
whether or not the subsector’s successes have been
achieved by questionable means.
The bulk of the Imperial Navy’s 76th fleet is
headquartered at Sekwon with squadrons stationed
throughout the subsector. The Naval Base on Iidsha
includes a training facility and operational centre
for Imperial Naval Intelligence. While the INI are
allegedly there to monitor incoming traffic from
Antares and Fornast, they are presumably also
keeping a watchful eye on the Triad to make sure
that their problems with one another do not boil over
into something more serious.

