T

In most sectors, the Ekilati Onati are an afterthought,
low-level thugs who extort protection money from
the bottom-feeding Irilitok castes but in Shinkan –
where they are referred to simply as ‘the Antareans’
– they are a force to be reckoned with in the criminal
underworld. The Triad War between the guilds of
Ishnuunar and syndicates of Derku and Gekhuu
has left a power vacuum on many worlds that the
Antareans have been quick to fill.
The Antareans operate primarily out of Aarza Kand
itself but they also have gangs in both belts and
just about every spaceport in the outer system. The
Vargr are a minority race and try to keep a low profile
as best they can but when crossed, the Antareans
respond with violent retribution. They often employ
humans as enforcers and assassins to prevent lawenforcement officers from easily implicating them.
Their signature act of retribution is to perform a
‘defanging’ before offing someone. The bodies of their
victims are found with their incisors and often their
claws – or fingernails if they are human – removed.
Mid-level gangsters sometimes wear collected teeth
on a necklace. Traditionally this form of violence was
only enacted upon other Vargr but the Ekilati Onati
have begun to inflict it upon humans as well.

Shinkan

Dim

134

The primary star and mainworld share the same
name in this system: the star due to its weak
luminosity and the planet for the prospects of its
citizens. Dim is a cold, mostly barren world, far
outside the habitable zone of the system, its star a
distant speck that provides little in the way of light
or heat. The system’s largest gas giant, Oaf, is at
the tipping point of becoming a brown dwarf and
approaches the size of Dim, the star. Oaf and Dim
orbit a close common barycentre, the two cosmic
bodies engaged in a tightly spinning dance with one
another. The other planets of the system, including
Dim itself, are circumbinary and therefore orbit both
the star and gas giant. The planet Dim is not tidally
locked with its primary star, which is unusual in a
red dwarf system. At some point in its distant past,
Dim may have been struck by a planet nearly its own

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

size, giving it a rotational period of about 12 standard
days. The collision theory also explains the presence
of a reasonably thick atmosphere and large amount
of water, most of which is frozen to a depth of several
hundred metres.
Life on Dim is, well… not bright but the world does
have some intrinsic value. It is located on the
extensive Lishun Main, which wends its way from
Ameros into Shinkan and continues two subsectors
into Fornast sector before it finally terminates. Traffic
on the main is high and Dim’s modest starport is
designed to facilitate trade as best it can. The central
pod of its highport is a busy thoroughfare where
freight and speculative cargo flows from ship-toship. Low-tech robots, large and small, scurry about
transporting cargo modules, product samples, mail
pods and other materials between wheeling and
dealing merchants. Visitors learn to watch their step
lest they be run down in its narrow streets.
Free-market shenanigans aside, Dim’s top commodity
is information. Dim is an entry point into the Core and
as such serves as a launchpad into the markets of
the sector. Some may dismiss borders as ultimately
just imaginary lines but most tramp traders are quick
to point out that there is something different about
the Core’s worlds. They have a unique culture and
way of doing business. Newcomers to the sector or
Travellers who have returned after being away in
Fornast or Antares for a while come to Dim to get the
lowdown on current events. The liquor may be cheap
at Dim Highport but the talk is not. Its numerous
taverns, speakeasies and dive bars are crowded with
Travellers who trade information on any number
of topics.
The surface of Dim is barely populated. The world’s
metal and mineral reserves are poor although there
are a few small operations that scratch out a living
mining copper, aluminium and tungsten. Its main
industry is ice cracking: robotic extractors obtain
the ice, crack it for hydrogen and ship it up to the
highport where it is sold in its unrefined state. There
is no downport on Dim, just a small spaceport that is
fit only to dock small craft.

R

