Dim Highport Cargo Robot

Dim cargo bots of various shapes and sizes
are a common sight at the Highport. These
robots may be rented by the hour and used
to retrieve small lots of cargo from the
central hub or other ships docked at the port.
Most are designed to be remote controlled
by individuals, but some have preset
programming and a list of daily tasks which
they doggedly perform with little regard for
pedestrians on Highport thoroughfares.
Travellers must take care to watch out for
these lumbering drones as accidents occur
from time-to-time.

Operating a Dim Highport cargo robot
without trampling innocent bystanders:
Difficult (10+) Electronics (remote ops) check
(2D minutes, DEX).
Robot

Hits

Locomotion

Speed

TL

Cost

Dim Highport Cargo Robot

50

Walker

(Vehicle)

12

Cr430000

Skills

Athletics (endurance) 3, Athletics (strength) 4, Profession (labourer) 2, Mechanic 1

Attacks

Inadvertent Trample (3D)

Manipulators

2x (STR 18, DEX 7)

Endurance

864 (173) hours

Traits

Armour (+4), ATV, Large (+2), Vehicle Speed: Very Slow (Slow), Hardened

Programming

Advanced (INT 6)

Options

Auditory Sensor, Drone Control Interface (advanced), Visual Spectrum Sensor,
Voder Speaker, Wireless Data Link, Magnetic Grippers, Forklift (medium),
Transceiver 50 km (improved), Vacuum Environment Protection, Cutting Torch
(improved), Mechanical Toolkit (basic)

Maeghen

Maeghen maintains an aloof presence among the
worlds of the Shinkan Main, a throwback to the Long
Night when fending for oneself was the way of things.
Generally speaking, life is good on Maeghen. With its
Earth-like atmosphere and nearly standard gravity,
the Maeghenians are self-sufficient and most of its
citizens pay little attention to the interstellar community
around them. Its serviceable and utilitarian highport

Shinkan

After living under the rule of a feudal monarchy
for much of its existence, Maeghen underwent a
revolution a few centuries ago in which the people
rose up and violently overthrew the ruling families. The
successor government was ostensibly a representative
democracy but was in fact controlled by a corrupt
shadow government, some of whom were exiled
members of the monarchy. This was toppled as well
and the Maeghenians, despite repeated attempts,
proved unable to build a lasting government. After
several failed experiments with self-rule, the People’s
Army took control of the planet and established a
modicum of stability. While military rule is considered

to be an interim step towards the establishment of a
viable civilian government, it seems to be working just
fine on Maeghen and there are no plans to change the
arrangement any time soon. There are still rumbles
of another revolution brewing but none of them have
achieved any level of legitimacy or momentum thus far.

135

