T

welcomes visitors who are travelling along the Lishun
Main but the downport scarcely rates a Class E facility.
The scout base on the planet has its own Class B
starport, complete with a service facility, small-craft
manufacturing centre and refined fuel. The base is not
accessible to the public but detached duty scouts may
use it upon request.
The scouts’ reason for being on Maeghen is to study its
unusual native plant and animal life. Based on the fossil
record, over 75 percent of the species on the planet
have been present for over a billion years without a
major extinction event, highly unusual in the galactic
scheme of things. Most worlds have fairly regular
cataclysms: ice ages, asteroid strikes, plagues and
other catastrophes that wipe out existing life forms only
to make way for a new wave after millions of years of
evolution by the survivors. The results of IISS studies
are inconclusive but they have noticed several curious
gaps in the taxonomy of the planet, which might be a
contributing factor.
The molecular structure of Maeghen’s native plant
life makes it indigestible for humans. Over thousands
of years of habitation, the Vilani genetically altered
select species to make them nutritious for humans.
In addition, they manipulated the soil so it could grow
crops of imported edible food. The methods they used
to adapt the plants have been lost in antiquity but most
of these crops continue to thrive today. There is some
concern that a blight of sufficient size could cause
widespread famine but the Maeghenians have been
fortunate enough to avoid such a calamity so far.

Shinkan

Minos

Minos was overlooked by the Vilani during the era
of the Ziru Sirka due to its inconvenient location and
lack of resources or life. It was eventually settled and
developed by Solomani colonists after surveyors
reported that there might be riches under the crusts of
its airless rockballs. Lo and behold it was true; beneath
the shallow crust of Minos, rich iridium and tungsten
lodes were found as well as the elements to easily
manufacture synthetic Zuchai crystals, all of which are
key components in the construction of jump drives.
The initial plan was for a conglomerate of local
companies to ship the materials offworld on midto long-range freighters, to be used in shipyards
located elsewhere. Much to everyone’s surprise, the
megacorporation GSbAG orchestrated a hostile takeover

136

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

of the publicly listed companies in the conglomerate and
effectively commandeered the Minos system. Shares of
the major players involved were held in three different
offworld exchanges but GSbAG timed their purchases
to be virtually simultaneous, therefore preventing any
of them from communicating with one another and
preventing the takeover. Minor holdings are still held
by the locals and several other investors but GSbAG
managed to acquire a commanding 53-percent share of
the operation. The move was extremely unpopular with
the locals even after GSbAG promised to employ them
at its newly built shipyard. GSbAG made assurances
that it had no designs on corporate control of the system,
just its industries. However, the megacorporation
seems to be quite cosy with Minos’ civilian dictator
who gives in to GSbAG’s every demand. In spite of the
apparent conflict of interest, Minos’ shipyards are highly
productive, producing starships for the Imperial Navy
and several planetary navies. They also manufacture
starships of civilian design but only at premium prices.
GSbAG is known for high quality and its Minosian
products do not disappoint.
While Minosian culture cannot be said to be distinctly
Solomani, they do possess a certain smugness and
entitlement that hails back to the age of the Terran
takeover. Minos was a Quarantine World until late in
the Sylean Pacification Campaign and surrendered
to Imperial authority only after being threatened with
orbital bombardment. Time and the hostile acquisition
of their system’s resources has not imbued them with
any degree of humility whatsoever. By and large,
Minosians see themselves as bold wildcatters, making
their way on a frontier system when in fact, they are
very much ingrained citizens of the Imperium. There is
a navy base present to remind them that the Rule of
Man fell long ago and that they are citizens of the Third
Imperium, not the Second.
Rumour has it that Minos is what one might call a
‘double Amber Zone’. While the Imperial Navy is
allegedly present to ensure the loyalty of the Minosians
and to guarantee safe transit across the Shinkan Gap,
they seem to be preoccupied with something else
entirely. Naval ships of unusual design have been seen
jumping out of the system without reappearing at any
of the worlds in the interstellar neighbourhood. It is
believed that these ships are jumping into the empty
space somewhere between Minos and Kalendae, for
what reason no one knows. Spurious rumours abound
that they are investigating an Ancients cache, a rogue
planet, a wreck from the Interstellar Wars or another
unusual object somewhere in the cold depths of space.
Whatever it is, the navy has been tight-lipped about it.

R

