SANCHES

Heavily populated Sanches is considered by most to
be the gateway to Dagudashaag but the Sanchesian
Prime Worlds – the high-population cluster of worlds
centred around the Sanches system itself – are
primarily focused on serving the Core. Its two industrial
worlds, Alekvadin and Dudin, manufacture many of
the sector’s consumer electronics and entertainment
devices. Sanches brings in a great deal of wealth from
the sales of its products to the other worlds of the
Core and exports to other sectors. The business of the
subsector is business. Its culture is highly collective
with individual needs and wants set aside in order to
serve the greater good of the Core. The subsector
is mostly surrounded by less-populated, provincial
subsectors; therefore, the transportation of its goods
requires the assistance of long-range freighters that
bridge the gaps to the other high-population worlds of
the sector. Many of these starships are constructed in
this subsector at the shipyards on Per, Kakhu Gash
and Sanches itself. While the yards on Sanches
are also used by military contractors, the majority of
their products are civilian in nature and include the
production of megafreighters of 50,000–500,000 tons
and ranging from jump-1 to jump-4 in performance.
Almost all of the worlds in the subsector retain their
original Vilani names with the sole exception being
Sanches itself. Most believe that the name is simply
a corruption of Sanshes, a common Vilani surname,
but it was in fact renamed by Terran Admiral Anatoliy

Sanches, whose naval forces conquered the system
late in the Interstellar Wars. After setting up shop on
the planet, he renamed it after himself and left the
remainder of world names in the subsector intact.
The subsector economy is bolstered by two small
jump-1 mains: the Sanches Cluster to spinward and
the Quadrant I Main, which dips into Apge, Perite
and Mekee. Sanches’ high-population worlds have
economies that far outstrip those of its neighbours
and Sanchesian traders rarely pass up the chance
to remind them of this. Sanches’ well-to-do worlds
sees themselves as powerful engines of prosperity for
which their neighbours should be thankful. Sanchesian
arrogance is mostly tolerated as long as the Credits
keep flowing into their coffers.
The Sanches subsector is defended by the Imperial
Navy’s 200th Fleet with headquarters at the Sanches
Navy Base. The navy has a large presence in the
subsector and regularly harbours squadrons in the Gir,
Khid and Neki systems in order to quell problems on
some of the troublesome worlds of the neighbouring
Dagudashaag sector. While Dagudashaag has its own
Imperial Navy fleet elements, the Core has expressed
concern over their seeming inability to establish a
degree of lasting peace on many of its worlds. The
spectre of the Ilelish Revolt still looms large and the
Imperium is determined that such a thing should never
occur again, especially on its proverbial doorstep.

137

