T

Arla Un

Arla Un orbits a bright blue-white subgiant star called
Kir Aikhalingas. The Arla Un ‘day’ is 263.8 standard
days long. The bright side of the planet heats up to a
white-hot 365o Celsius and its dark side can drop to as
low as 125o below zero. Arla Un appears to have been
subjected to multiple large impacts that have stripped
away much of its lithosphere and crust, leaving the
metal-rich mantle exposed. The planet has a trace
atmosphere and an oceanic slurry of water, tar and
sulphuric acid that moves along longitudinal cracks,
canyons and through deep veins under its surface. A
high degree of volcanic and tectonic activity results in
an ever-changing geography with crumbling hills and
mountains, and new fissures carved into its extensive
lava plains with each passing year.

Sanches

Arla Un posed a technical challenge to the conservative
Vilani that they chose to pass up. It was deemed better
to go after the ‘low-hanging fruit’ than to brave the
dangers of a half-molten planet. The system was left
uninhabited until the Rule of Man and even then, only
survey outposts were established on the world. Only
in the year 565 did permanent settlements begin to
appear on Arla Un. There are three types of inhabited
structures on the planet: subterranean, surface and
gravitic. Underground cities have been emplaced in
relatively stable pockets, far away from volcanism
and underground acid oceans. Its surface ‘cities’ are
actually wheeled or tracked platforms that slowly rove
around the planet, while the gravitic habitations float
close to its surface to avoid direct exposure to the
powerful rays of Kir Aikhalingas. Surface and gravitic

140

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

cities use a combination of imagery and data collected
by rad-shielded satellites and heat-shielded rovers
and drones to guarantee their safe transit around the
world. With new crevices, river valleys and reservoirs
developing all the time, they must take care to ensure
that there are no surprises in front of them. The
constant movement of living on a mobile platform is
unusual but for the most part, they function as typical
cities complete with all the trappings of a modern, hightech civilisation. Arla Un has two Class B downports
emplaced in mobile cities, one on tracks and the other
on a gravitic platform. The largest of the cities is a
massive linked caravan of tracked platforms, which
provides housing for over 200,000 people.
The highport is an industrial facility, mostly concerned
with shipping Arla Un’s metals and minerals off planet
and importing the many goods and services that its
citizens need. There is a residential and hospitality
district but for the most part, the highport is quite
utilitarian. The majority of permanent residences are on
(or just above) the planet itself. The world is governed
by the Arla Un Mining Consortium, a federal union
of representatives from its mobile and subterranean
cities, which manages the exploitation of the planet’s
natural resources and acts as a mediator with large,
off-world mining concerns. Megacorporate and sectorwide corporate mining and resource-extraction firms
have attempted to invest in Arla Un by purchasing local
companies but none have broken ranks thus far. The
Arla Unians are solemnly proud of the way they have
tamed the hostile environment of their homeworld and
have an almost nationalistic fervour when it comes to
their independence.

R

