MEKEE

Mekee is a sparsely populated subsector marked by
two stellar chasms and no fewer than eight small stellar
clusters, each of which is referred to as a ‘county’
by the vacant office of the subsector duke. Mekee’s
previous duke was killed in a duel with a high-ranking
member of the peerage from Fornast. Duelling is
frowned upon in the Core but reversion to the barbaric
practice still occurs from time-to-time. Duels must be
sanctioned by the Emperor and attended by an Imperial
observer, and this only after a lengthy bureaucratic
process and a great deal of paperwork is completed.
The process typically takes 6–9 months. The hope
is that by making the code duello cumbersome and
inconvenient, cooler heads will ultimately prevail and
the whole thing will be called off. It usually works quite
well but it obviously failed as far as the Duke of Mekee
was concerned.
The subsector is now managed by the eight nobles
who represent each of the counties. In truth, most
of Mekee’s clusters are far too small to warrant the
assignment of a count so several are barons and
knights. By Imperial law the duke’s heir should have
succeeded him as subsector duke but the ducal family
had been besmirched by scandal and the Emperor
temporarily suspended their patent. The leading nobles
of each county come to Ushra once every 100 days
in order to manage the subsector’s affairs. It is rare
that all eight can make it to the meeting every time,
so the rules have recently been adjusted so that a
quorum is declared if six are present, although there is
little administration to be done. Mekee is a disparate
collection of small fiefs that have little in common with
one another and it seems to get along just fine without
a large degree of oversight. Nevertheless, rules are
rules and the peers of the realm have obligations.
The most significant system in the subsector by far is
Depot, which provides personnel, training, berthing and
maintenance services for the Core Sector Fleet. The
world of Depot Prime – or Uugnii, as the Vilani called
it – is theorised to have been terraformed but never
settled by the Ancients. Perhaps even more fascinating
are the ruins of a multi-world civilisation on Adguu Uun,
Guun and Mukiid. There is a body of evidence that
indicates these may be the remnants of a species that

144

originated on one of the three worlds and reached the
other two by sublight spacecraft. None of the artefacts
that have been found appear to be of human origin and
they are too recent to have been built by the Ancients
who vanished approximately 300,000 years ago. The
ruins on Mukiid have been reasonably well preserved
but archaeologists are still uncertain about many
things, including what caused this multi-world species
to disappear from the galactic scene.
Most traffic from the Core subsector does not flow
through Mekee, unless it is naval traffic making its
way to Depot or scout ships travelling to the IISS way
station on Ushra. Mekee is a backwater and traversing
it is difficult for most civilian starships so most simply
go around rather than through it. Merchants generally
avoid Mekee like the plague, preferring instead to ply
the Sylean Main to rimward or the Quadrant I Main to
coreward. The only reliable commercial traffic through
the subsector are bulk freighters from the Achenaar
Antilles line, which keeps its worlds supplied with the
goods that they need.
The Imperial Navy 3rd Fleet, headquartered at
Muskoxah, has only three squadrons but a large
number of auxiliary ships, mostly fleet couriers used
to carry news rapidly to Capital from the spinward
subsectors of the Core and beyond. Two of the
squadrons are typical BatRons, which patrol the
subsector when not otherwise engaged and one
TankRon, stationed at Gipkikhar, which is present to
lend assistance to fleet elements making their way
outward from the Core subsector.

Coppelia

Coppelia is the site of Research Station Gamma,
which was founded in 882. An initial eight-person team
was put in place to study the anomalous gravity field
of the system mainworld. While most of the planet has
a consistent 0.45G, regions of Coppelia, ranging in
size from 10,000 to 500,000 square kilometres, have
been seen to fluctuate from 0.3 to 0.7G. These gravitic
disturbances last anywhere from a few seconds to
several hours after which the region slowly returns to
the median 0.45G.

