The system mainworld of the Depot system is called
Depot Prime. Depot Prime is special because it is a
world that was touched by the Ancients. While there
are no Ancients sites present in the system per se,
they left their indelible mark on the planet. Hundreds
of thousands of years before this world was named
Uugnii by the Vilani, it was terraformed by the Ancients.
Extensive research has revealed that it was once
a large rockball world from the outer system. The
Ancients somehow moved it into the habitable zone,
made its core spin to give it an electromagnetic field
that it previously lacked, got it rotating so that it has
a 36.7-hour day and brought in enough water to
cover it with oceans and gases to give it a standard
atmosphere. Scientists theorise that the project was
incomplete. Evidence indicates that they may have
been preparing to thicken the atmosphere further and
activate tectonic plates so islands might emerge out
of the ocean depths. Perhaps the Final War of the
Ancients interrupted the project or maybe they just
moved on, leaving the world unfinished. Whatever the
case may be, they somehow managed the titanic task
of creating a spinning, habitable world where there
once was none.
Vilani priests believed the world was sacred and
prevented large numbers of people from colonising it.
The religion that protected Uugnii died out during the
Long Night, leaving a remnant population behind. After
rediscovering the world, the Imperium relocated the
survivors so they could claim it for their own and make
it into the first Depot of the Imperial Navy.
Depot system is the headquarters of the Core Sector
Fleet. Most Sector Fleet assets are deployed elsewhere
but a number of its battleships and dreadnoughts are
always present in the system, even in peacetime. It is
also the home of the Depot Fleet, which consists of
three sections:

•

•

Training Fleet – Formed of ships of the line
that have been brought to Depot to train naval
personnel in their use. Every type of ship in
service to the Imperial Navy is present at one
time or another. Training Fleet ships are on
loan from both the Sector Fleet and numbered
fleets, and typically return to service after a
designated period of time. Common classes of
ship (for example, mid-size cruisers) may see
extended duty in the Training Fleet and remain
in system for months or even years, as required.
The Training Fleet also contains Adversary
Squadrons, ships designated to play the role
of enemy ships in training exercises. In most
cases, these are Imperial Navy ships outfitted
with weaponry, software and other elements to
make them resemble enemy ships as best they
can. In other cases, these are actual captured
enemy spacecraft refitted for training purposes.
Assignment to an Adversary Squadron is highly
desired by members of the officer corps. Some
of the most battle-ready officers of the line
learned their craft by having served aboard the
‘enemy ships’ of an Adversary Squadron.
Mothball Fleet – The last stop for many of the
navy’s starships is the Depot Mothball Fleet.
Ships are brought to one of Depot’s maintenance
hangars for a thorough inspection, given
preservative treatment and then designated
for one of the following: refit and reassignment
to a colonial or reserve fleet, the breaker yard
to be disassembled for scrap, equipped with
automation and used as targets in live-fire
exercises or storage at one of several auxiliary
facilities on one of the other planets or planetoid
belts in Depot system. Assignment to storage
usually means the navy is uncertain about quite
what they want to do with the ship and that it
requires more time to make the decision.

Mekee
147

