T

•

Security Fleet – The alert and highly active
Security Fleet defends Depot from all possible
dangers. This fleet consists of system defence
boats, jump-capable early-warning squadrons,
decommissioned battle riders that function
essentially as large SDBs and armoured
planetoid monitors. The latter are composed of
planetoids drawn from Depot’s two belts and
include some absolutely massive specimens.
Depot-PM1A is a 1.5-million ton buffered
planetoid, equipped with a top-of-the-line
meson spinal mount. The planetoid is bristling
with dozens of bays and turret weaponry as
well. This and other planetoid monitors also
contain multiple fighter wings.

Hundreds of space stations orbit Depot Prime and
sit perched in its Lagrange Points. Most of these are
hangars for Imperial Navy spacecraft and shipyards
where the largest naval starships are built. Some
stations are reserved for training purposes and contain
simulators, vacc suit and EVA training grounds and
zero-G firing ranges.

Mekee

The navy’s primary administration, personnel and
training facilities are on the surface of Depot Prime.
While the world has no land masses to speak of, it does
have many sea mounts that approach the surface of its
oceans. The navy has built structures on these natural
formations, most of which jut from beneath the ocean
surface in domes and spires. The largest of these
facilities is Depot Prime Downport, which includes an
extensive surface area to land and dock naval starships
and small craft. Depot Prime is also heavily laden with
defensive structures ranging from missile batteries and
point defence lasers both on its primary structures and
on floating artificial islands scattered throughout its
oceans. There are also multiple deep-site meson guns
implanted at confidential and highly secure locations
beneath the ocean floor.

148

Life at Depot Prime can be a pleasant experience
during peacetime. While there is always work to be
done, shore duty is also a time to take a break from
long tours aboard a naval starship. Living in one of the
world’s many residential districts or artificial islands,
one might even forget they were in the navy if not for

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

the uniforms, flyovers and the blinking lights of the
shipyards and space stations in the night sky. Extensive
recreational facilities are present for naval personnel
on liberty and all sorts of entertainments and services
are available. Over the centuries, the oceans have
been stocked with fish and other sea life and fishing
excursions are a favourite pastime.
Despite the languorous aura at such facilities, the navy
does its best to ensure productivity and engagement
among its staff with frequent reminders that a return
to active duty is never far away. Peacetime or not,
naval Depots must be ever vigilant in spite of the fact
that large-scale wars are few and far between. Should
the Imperium ever go to war, its Depots will become
contested battlegrounds.

Sher

The Sher system was virtually uninhabited until the
early years of the Third Imperium when it became
host to the Core’s largest prison system. There are
several facilities, each designed to house criminals of
various stripes, from organised crime bosses to mass
murderers. The prisons are reserved only for those
who have broken Imperial law or severe violations of
subsector and planetary laws with a sentence of life
without parole. All of the prison facilities on the planet
are located in the murky nitrogen soup of its lower
atmosphere. Some are subterranean and others are
bunkers half submerged in rocky plains and valleys.
Stepping outside without the aid of an environment suit
brings about a quick death as cold nitrogen replaces
oxygen in the lungs, causing asphyxiation. As if the
environment alone were not sufficient to prevent
escape attempts, the prisons use high-technology
surveillance and access systems to monitor and limit
each prisoner’s every move.
The civilian population of the planet are housed in
cities on the planet’s mountains and plateaus, where
the atmosphere is a breathable oxygen-nitrogen mix.
Workers take the high-speed maglev train to work in
the dismal prison facilities below. There is no naval
base in the Sher system but the navy does have an
administrative office on the planet, which reports to the
base on Temra. Temra provides offworld management
of the prison planet and supplies its civilian personnel.

R

