CORE

Core is home to Capital, the world where the Emperor
of the Third Imperium sits upon the Iridium Throne.
Because of their proximity to Capital, the worlds of the
Core subsector are scrutinised closely and modifications
are made when it is deemed that the safety of Capital is at
stake. Some of these alterations are subtle and some are
blunt. Unrequested surveillance software might be added
to a starport security system or the Imperial Guard might
drop troops onto a world where trouble is suspected.
While the Imperium is not shy about doing what it must
to protect Capital, it tries to do so with a soft touch – or
at least the appearance of one. One of the credos of
Imperial rule is to defend the space between worlds
without applying a heavy hand to local politics. Individual
worlds are left to their own devices as long as they do
not break Imperial law, allowing for a broad range of
social and political variation. This is also true in the Core
subsector but the Imperium does have its security to think
about. As with any powerful polity, there are those who
would do it harm if they could and the Imperium pulls out
all the stops to defend the Emperor.
Most of the worlds of the Core subsector understand their
unique place in the Imperium and tolerate a more intrusive
government presence. Capital does what it can to remind
them how unique and important they are. The fact that
there are a number of Sylean worlds goes a long way to
ensure a cooperative environment. The Syleans were
largely responsible for the success of the Third Imperium
and those with Sylean blood are especially proud of their
part in its history and more willingly submit to the higher
level of scrutiny.
Core contains 11 of the 25 worlds that form the Sylean
Worlds cultural zone. These worlds were settled by
pureblood Syleans and people of mixed Sylean blood
after the formation of the Third Imperium and were
casually referred to as ‘the Sylean Worlds’ long before
they acquired the official designation. During the Civil
War, the Moot refused to endorse many of the pretenders
who laid claim to the throne. Naval battles were fought
in Capital and other nearby star systems. The Sylean
Worlds called upon the Imperial Navy’s 1st and 4th Fleets
to protect Capital and the heart of the Imperium. The Moot
waited for a proper candidate to appear and, for a time,
the Sylean worlds became an autonomous region. To
a degree, this event inoculated the rest of the Imperium
from the chaos of the Civil War. The move localised the
conflict and enabled the remainder of the Imperium to

carry on, unaffected by events on Capital. The region was
later converted into an official cultural zone to harbour
and preserve Sylean culture and serve as a reminder that
when things get tough, the Imperium closes ranks and
safeguards its capital.
The subsector has two reserve worlds, Lectorsen and
Crompton. Lectorsen’s unique twilight-band jungles
caught the interest of Emperor Martin II, an avid naturalist
who made it an Imperial protectorate and emplaced a
soft interdiction to strictly control access to the planet.
The world’s extensive staff of administrative and wildlife
maintenance professionals carefully cultivate the planet
to preserve its pristine state. With a far smaller staff,
Crompton has been reserved as a playground for the
Imperial family and other high-ranking nobles who come
for rest and recreation. Crompton’s hardy ecosphere is
stocked with game from throughout the Imperium. Its staff
conducts, extensive safaris for the world’s guests, during
which they may hunt or simply observe its animals.
There is a cultural rift between the Sylean Worlds and
a group known as the Wayward Worlds. The Wayward
Worlds are not an official district or cultural zone but do
have a unique place in history that has some carryover
to modern times. These were the worlds that were part of
the Sylean Federation at the dawn of the Third Imperium
but chose to reject the offer of membership in the fledgling
empire. Cleon Zhunastu accepted this betrayal with
aplomb but ultimately acquired these worlds over time.
In truth, they had no choice. As the Imperium grew, the
Wayward Worlds became increasingly isolated and were
ultimately forced to accept Imperial membership. It is
said that time heals all wounds and such is the case with
the Wayward Worlds. The descendants of the traitorous
powers who rejected Cleon’s advances no longer pay for
the sins of their ancestors; however, the schism did result
in a distinct, non-Sylean culture that is still evident among
these worlds to this day.
In spite of its high security, the Core subsector is part of
a vibrant trade route: the Sylean Main, which includes
all of the Wayward Worlds, several of the Sylean Worlds
extending into Kaskii, along the coreward flanks of Chant
and Cemplas, and ultimately broadens to include most
of the systems in Bunkeria before wending its way into
the neighbouring Dagudashaag Sector. Most of these
subsectors are lightly populated, so the Sylean Main
is not as lucrative as those found in heavily populated

149

