T

sectors like Massilia or Ilelish. Savvy traders contend that
any shortcomings the Sylean Main may have are more
than made up for by the sheer quantity of development
opportunities present. While Capital has always sought
to avoid becoming directly involved in the affairs of its
worlds, it has been somewhat of an embarrassment that
the trade main upon which it sits is so utterly provincial
and underdeveloped. There are those among the nobility
and megacorporate community who seek to change that.

Core

The Core subsector is defended by the hallowed 1st Fleet,
which is headquartered on Capital itself with squadrons
spread throughout the subsector. The fleet consists
of eight full squadrons including five BatRons, two
AssaultRons and a TankRon to assist with deployments
and training exercises. The Core’s Subsector Fleet is
supported by large elements of the Sector Fleet, which
are rotated into service in the subsector regularly. In
addition to its many bases, there is the Imperial Marine
Training Centre on Codsen, a rough outpost with a
challenging environment where marines are trained in
the arts of survival. The system has not been assigned
a base symbol on purpose; only barebones housing and
other facilities are present, which hint at the challenging
environment that lies before trainees.

150

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Wayward Worlds

At the dawn of the Third Imperium, Cleon Zhunastu’s
appeal to the worlds of the Sylean Federation were
not accepted by all. Thirteen worlds initially rejected
membership in the new Imperium. Cleon managed to
convince six of them to reconsider only to see three flipflop once again shortly after his coronation. Only eight
of the original Sylean worlds accepted roles as founding
systems of the new empire outright. The founding worlds
were Kiiri (now Nesdo), Lauursha (Shudusham), Khash
(Rhylea), Laairer (Rib), Idmum (Ercan), Gikuu (Codsen),
Kuunen Ish (Yirsh Poy) and of course Sylea itself,
which became Capital. The Syleans had deep cultural
resentment of the Vilani after a millennium of oppression
and were quick to shed the Vilani names of most of their
worlds. Only Shudusham, which had already changed
its name shortly after being contacted by the Sylean
Federation, retained its name largely due to the presence
of such a large Vilani population.
The Wayward Worlds were Unrair (now Thass), Unkuu
(Balpan), Irurk (Ankod), Aggii Ganaan (Ploiqu), Irmap Muu
(Traak), Nirinirk (Crompton), Bala (Morii), Zuarkri (Ion) and
Kain (Onon). Many of these worlds retained their original
names for many years before being renamed one-by-one
in an attempt to shed the burden of their traitorous past.

R

