Ankod

Reverently referred to as the ‘Gateway to Capital’,
Ankod is a key stop on the route into the subsector
from Vland and Lishun. The Imperial Navy base
at Ankod has a partnership with universities on
neighbouring Knabbib to develop security technology
that provides a protective cordon for Capital and
the subsector at large. Naval astronomers and
technologists come to Ankod to work on the ultrasecret Project Shortbow at its secure training and
development facilities.
Ankod is a key stop on the Annililik Run (for more on
this epic event, see The Annililik Run on page 120)
and has hospitality facilities for millions of visitors
who come to see the thousands of racing ships en
route either to or from Vland. When not providing
lodging and entertainment for fans of the race, the
government subsidises these facilities, using them
to provide free housing for visiting traders and other
Travellers. Ankod also provides complimentary
refuelling for ships in the sub-1,000-ton range and a
60 percent discount for those larger than that. Ankod
is a gas-giant moon and runs a fleet of skimming
drones that extract hydrogen from the gas giant for
processing at its refineries. This generosity is a big
expense but is more than paid for by the increased
trade that it brings to the system, which is near the
terminus of the Sylean Main.

Capital

Capital is the seat of government of the Third Imperium
and home to both the Emperor – who resides at the
Grand Palace of Arbellatra – and members of the
peerage, who assemble at the Moot Spire.

The world’s 20 billion inhabitants are well-distributed
among its land masses and oceans, with residential
arcologies located mostly in the coastal regions, but
several cities are in its mountain ranges and oceans
as well. Cleon’s residential zones are home to 450
million people, which does not take into account the
millions of visiting dignitaries, diplomats, business
people and tourists who are present at any given time.
Travellers may be surprised to discover that Intell is
actually Capital’s largest city with a total population of
562 million citizens living within its urban sprawl. The
city of Intell is where Capital’s primary administrative
centres and light industry are located. It is often said
that while the heart of Capital is Cleon, its mind is
at Intell. Despite the fact that Capital has 20 billion
sophonts living on its surface and orbital habitats,
judicious use has been made of its available land.
Large expanses of territory have been restored to their
original states, including millions of hectares of jungle,
open plains and mountains. Most of these regions
have been inhabited at one point or another during
Capital’s long history but have been painstakingly
returned to their original condition.
Capital was once known as Sylea and has been
inhabited by humans for hundreds of thousands of
years. The Syleans, a human Minor Race, were seeded
on the world by the Ancients. After thousands of years
of intermixing with Vilani, Solomani and other human
subspecies, there are few genetically pure Syleans
remaining. However, there are some Sylean populations
that have preserved their genetic and cultural identities,
mostly those who maintained an isolated existence
in the mountain ranges of its third-largest continent.
Nevertheless, one will find billions of people on Capital
who claim Sylean heritage, many of whom proudly
participate in cultural events, traditions and religious
rituals that were practiced by their ancestors.

Core

Capital is a pleasant world with a varied climate,
oceans that cover almost two thirds of its surface
and a dense atmosphere of a suitable oxygennitrogen mix. The residents of Capital have gotten
used to the density of its air over time but the
atmospheric pressure at high levels of elevation
are more comfortable for un-adapted humans. The
world has five continents and many large islands and
archipelagos. Its system primary is Zan Ki Ond, a
type-G2 main sequence star, nearly identical to that
of Terra in size and luminosity. However, Capital’s
slightly closer proximity to the star has made the
world marginally hotter, giving it a large temperate
zone with immense rainforests and river valleys. Its
subtle 18o axial tilt results in consistent weather. The
interaction of its dense atmosphere and star produces
some extreme weather effects including strong inland

storms and hurricanes along the coasts. Technology
is used to mitigate meteorological effects to ensure
a pleasant and fruitful stay for visitors to the world.
Capital has two small moons, neither of which are
near enough to create significant tidal forces. Despite
its middling size, Capital has higher-than-expected
gravity at 0.69G due to its thin mantle and larger-thannormal nickel-iron core.

Capital is well defended with three full BatRons
present in the system at all times. The planet is also
defended by squadrons of smaller system-defence
spacecraft, dozens of orbital batteries of lasers and
missiles, particle weapons, ground-based aerial
defences and deep-site meson guns. Capital makes
more of an effort than most worlds to conceal its

155

