defences. While the Imperium wants its capital to be
safe, it does not want to project the image that it is a
militarised bunker anticipating attack.
The most popular destinations on Capital are in
Cleon, where tourists go to see its many museums,
shopping districts, the Grand Plaza of Heroes and
the palace grounds where they can see the lofty Moot
Spire, Cleon’s Tomb, the Crescent Lake (where the
second Imperial Palace crash landed during the Civil
War) and of course the Grand Palace of Arbellatra
itself and its attending structures: Paulo’s Annex,
Tomutov’s Palace and the Trinary Consortium. Visitors
of a more academic bent go to the Imperial Archives
where thousands of original documents and scholarly
works are on display. There are many more popular
destinations throughout the world and elsewhere in
the system. War history aficionados make pilgrimages
to the gas giant Zhimaway where retired capital ships
perform re-enactments of Arbellatra’s famous battle
for control of the planet.

The Grand Palace of Arbellatra

The Grand Palace is a grandiose structure, a tribute
to the magnificence and power of the Imperium. At
39-million tons and one kilometre in diameter, the sheer
enormity of the palace never ceases to amaze visitors.
The palace was completed in 633 after four years of
construction. It is suspended half a kilometre from
the surface of Capital by a ring of gravitic suspensors
emplaced below the grounds of the Imperial Park. The
palace itself has backup gravitic drives within its hull
but should they ever be required, they have limited
power and can only keep it aloft for a short period of
time before they must gently set it down.

The throne room of the Grand Palace is a spacious
octagonal room that is adjacent to the Imperial
Residence. The Emperor entertains his most esteemed
visitors in this room. The hallowed Iridium Throne was
built by Cleon Zhunastu himself and is one of the few
surviving artefacts from the first palace.
The Grand Palace of Arbellatra is attended by several
smaller floating gravitic structures, including the
following: the Consortium Trinary, which is a trio of
small spheres, each of which contains a museum with
exhibits dedicated to the three Imperiums; Paulo’s
Annex, a pleasure palace that contains all sorts of
entertainments and is often used for sporting events;
and Tomutov’s Palace, which is used to house
esteemed guests of the Emperor.

Onon

Onon is an inhospitable world originally settled by
the Vilani over 5,000 years ago. Among the planet’s
many imposing features are high winds of over 350
kilometres per hour, acid rain and poisonous gas
clouds emitted from porous and cracked volcanic
plains. The final straw for the colony may have come
when a violent shifting of the world’s tectonic plates
massively increased the volcanism. So much volcanic
effluvium was emitted into the atmosphere that
Onon was concealed in worldwide dust-cloud cover
for over two centuries. Onon has ample resources
but ultimately proved to be too challenging an
environment to sustain a long-term settlement. The
only colonists who remained were belters who settled
the system’s two planetoid belts. The belts were never
especially rich and were eventually tapped of what
valuable metals they had.

Core

Defences include four deep meson bays, eight
particle accelerator bays, eight missile launcher bays
and eight point-defence lasers. The palace is also
protected with a thick layer of bonded superdense
armour, nuclear dampers, meson screens and radiation
shielding. To top it off, the entire structure is psionicly
shielded to prevent any form of telepathic intrusion.
The airspace within 100km of the palace is strictly
controlled by security technicians within the palace and
in subterranean control structures below the grounds.
This impressive array of defences is concealed from
public view. It is of the utmost importance that the seat
of Imperial power not be seen as a fortified bunker.
Shields and weapons – while necessary – show
trepidation. The Emperor strives to convey confidence
and power. The palace does all that and more.

The central shaft of the palace contains the
Imperial Gardens and aquarium, each of which are
approximately 400 metres deep and contain flora
and fauna from places throughout the Imperium.
Along the equator is a 25-metre wide promenade that
encircles the entire palace sphere. The promenade
has walkways, a tram and a narrow highway for
small vehicles. Its inner wall is adorned with scenes
from Imperial history. Speaking of history, the current
Emperor has access to the Hall of Wisdom, where he
may speak with artificially intelligent simulations of all
previous Emperors.

157

