Today, Onon is a lonely and desolate system with
only a few thousand permanent inhabitants. The
world receives few visitors other than an occasional
team of geological researchers. While not technically
an Imperial Reserve, the Emperor does use it as a
solemn refuge from time-to-time in order to get away
from the stresses of managing an empire. Much of
the world’s infrastructure has fallen into ruin and is
being reclaimed by native flora and the elements.
The major Imperial retreat is the central palace and
surrounding government buildings, poised on a sheer
cliff overlooking a scum-choked sea; much of the
surrounding city is also in ruin. An obsidian fortress
has been built for the Emperor on one of Onon’s midsize mountains, overlooking a wide basalt plain. Its
stark vistas and noxious black cloud cover make it an
excellent place for brooding and deep contemplation.

Rhylea

Rhylea has a hybrid hydrogen-chloride/carbon
dioxide atmosphere with trace oxygen. The world
does not have much in the way of complex life
forms but does have abundant microbial species
and several hundred types of oceanic algae, coastal
lichens and low-lying shrubbery, which have been
catalogued by naturalists who explored the world in
hostile environment suits. Like most F-type stars,
Rhylea’s primary simply will not have a long enough
lifespan for the world to evolve a broader range of
flora and fauna.

Residents and visitors alike are allowed to explore the
exotic environment of the planet, which they often do.
Vehicles are provided by the colony but many people
opt to simply don an environment suit and go for a
hike. The chlorine in the atmosphere gives it a fumy
green colour and visibility is limited. The colony has
begun to keep close tabs on explorers with tracking
and communications devices after a few expeditions
were lost in the world’s murky mountain ranges.

Shudusham

A water world with only a few small land masses,
Shudusham has been inhabited for thousands of
years dating back to the early expansion period
of the First Imperium. The world, which the Vilani
called Lauursha, was isolated during the Long Night.
Shudusham is rich in natural resources but presents
a challenging environment that requires reasonably
high technology to survive. When the flow of
interstellar trade abruptly came to a halt, many of the
world’s thousands of undersea arcologies floundered
and died. Small groups of cities and in many cases
individual arcologies became isolated city states.
Radio contact was retained and used by oceangoing
ships and submarines but linguistic drift divided the
arcology nations even further.
After being contacted by Sylean scouts, the
Lauurshans eagerly accepted technological aid
and gradually climbed back up the technological
ladder, eventually surpassing their pre-Long Night
level. After recontact, the locals adopted Galanglic
as their primary language but even today, people
from many of the extant arcologies speak a local
dialect as a second language. Lauursha changed
its name to Shudusham, referencing a resurrection
story from Vilani lore often likened to the story of the
phoenix from ancient Terran mythology. Shudushami
resources and industrial output are given a great deal
of credit for fuelling the rise of the Sylean Federation
and its successor, the Third Imperium.

Core

The world was barren until a few centuries ago when
Sylean colonists built a cultural and religious refuge
there. The name of the world means ‘new home’.
The colony is governed by a council of priests,
philosophers and academics and has no law to
speak of. While the facilities are intended for people
of Sylean heritage, non-Syleans are not forbidden
from coming. However, visitors are expected to adopt
the dress, customs and language of ancient Sylea.
The official language is Old Sylean and speaking
Galanglic, Vilani and other languages is discouraged.
Monks at the temple will teach visitors the language
provided they prove their heritage is at least 75
percent Sylean.

The domes and other structures of the colony are
deliberately mid-tech but are ornate, well-designed
and have been built with high-quality materials.
Sylean culture emphasises prosperity and the
acquisition of wealth and it appears that the Rhylean
colony has well-heeled benefactors.

159

