T

For over 700 years, Shudusham has been the site
of the famous Shudusham Robotics Conference.
Held once every 10 years, this year-long conference
attracts academics and technologists from
throughout the Core sector and beyond. New
discoveries, product demonstrations and thousands
of panels are held during the year-long event.
Shudusham was selected to host the event due to
its historical significance. About a century before the
founding of the Third Imperium, terrorists used armed
robots to destroy a Sylean warship at Fornol. Shortly
thereafter, Shudusham hosted the Shudusham
Robotics Concords, which set strict limitations on the
use of robots.

Syroe

Core

Syroe was on the edge of ecological disaster until
Emperor Martin II intervened in the mid-230s.
Syroe, then called Shaaak, was overpopulated and
governed by an agency that sought to develop its
resources as fully as it could with little regard for the
environmental damage it was causing. Its industrial
concerns were producing toxic atmospheric taints,
which threatened the lives of its inhabitants. In
addition, careless development projects had done
a great deal of damage to the world’s surface by
speeding up the erosion of delicate coastal land
masses. Martin could not stomach having such
a collapse occur right on Capital’s doorstep. He
initiated a deindustrialisation and emigration program
that sought to reverse the seemingly inevitable
disaster and relocate millions of its most endangered
citizens to the previously undeveloped worlds of Ase,
Uunli (now Umgadin) and Khishnar (now Xalm).

160

It was a colossal undertaking that took decades to
complete. Using disposable one-shot and two-shot
jump drives, the Shaaaki were transported to their
new homes where they built three new societies, two
of that – Ase and Umgadin – have become industrial
powerhouses. Each had rich planetoid belts which
were mined for the materials they needed to build their
societies. Things have not gone quite as well on Xalm,
which is in environmental freefall but Imperial aid has
been provided in an attempt to reverse its decline.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Syroe is a small, low-gravity world with three
continents and highly unusual geography. Most of
the accessible land on the world is in the form of
high plateaus surrounded by sharp, craggy mountain
ranges at the coasts that appear to jut upwards from
the sea like daggers. At the centre of each continent
is a massive caldera, each of which was active
approximately a million years ago but all of which are
dormant now. The largest of the continents actually
has two overlapping calderas but the oldest of the
two seems to have gone dormant many millions of
years before the other. Natural erosion has cut sharp
crevices and canyons into the plateaus, carving them
up with deep river valleys and canyons some of which
descend below sea level where the atmosphere
is considerably denser, nearly reaching a thin
classification. In its oceans, Syroe has two enormous
atolls created by additional calderas but which failed
to reach above the surface of the water. One of the
two is still active and has been bubbling a sulphurous
spume to the surface for centuries but it has not
violently erupted for hundreds of thousands of years.
The placid, stable K-type primary star of the system
is old and the planet has had billions of years to
develop a complex array of life forms. Its distant red
dwarf companion is too remote to have a noticeable
effect on the system mainworld. Imperial Navy and
Scout bases have been present on Syroe since the
early 300s. Emperor Anguistus endowed the world
with a multi-billion Credit grant, which was used to
terraform it back into a more pristine state, a project
which was completed in the early 600s and has been
in maintenance mode ever since.
The syroc is an aerial reptiloid predator that hunts
small- to mid-sized creatures on the surface of
Syroe. An adult syroc measures approximately one
and a half metres from head to tail and its leathery
wings span from three to four metres, ending in
sharp talons. Males and females use their talons
for different purposes. Males use them to establish
mating privileges and females to crack open hardshelled or skinned prey for their young to eat and to
ward off males when they are not ovulating. Syrocs
are graceful and precise flyers and are often seen in
flocks of two to five, slicing their way through Syroe’s
canyons. The air above the canyons is too thin to
support their flight capabilities so they are rarely
seen on the plateaus. However, they are occasionally
found on the edge of an escarpment, hopping along
and looking for small prey.

R

