K ASKII

The Kaskii subsector has a low stellar density but
a surprisingly high population. With only 24 star
systems – the fewest in all of the Core – it is home to
the second-highest number of people in the sector,
second only to Saregon. Of Kaskii’s seven highpopulation worlds, three are classified as industrial.
Of these, Kaskii and Khuir are models of efficiency;
the other, Markasher, is plagued with problems that
prevent it from becoming one.
Most worlds in the subsector were barely populated
when the Third Imperium was established. It
was a barren and desolate place with only a few
struggling remnant populations that were left over
from the Long Night. There were two reasons why
this changed as rapidly as it did. The first was the
betrayal of the Wayward Worlds. When 10 systems
from the original Sylean Federation refused to join
the fledgling Third Imperium, the Syleans expanded
their presence to trailing of Capital. The second
was the desire of the Syleans to build a cultural
legacy, which they felt they could only do if there
were significantly more Syleans and more worlds on
which they had an enduring presence. While they
were instrumental in the founding of the Imperium,
the Syleans were a tiny minority at its outset. They
embarked upon an aggressive population expansion
project, the fruit of which may be seen in the Kaskii
subsector today. Sylean families were encouraged
to be fruitful and multiply, which they did with great
alacrity, so much so that there are now over 48 billion
Syleans in the subsector.

162

The Sylean Worlds are thought to be like any other
Imperial worlds until one visits them. Travellers
often note that when they make the jump into the
worlds of the cultural zone, they feel as if they
have left the Imperium for a foreign polity. Others
say that it is more like going through a time warp,
either to a distant past when technology was not so
prevalent or to a utopian future, in which there is
no military presence. The cultural zone does in fact
have many high-tech worlds but the Syleans are
understated when it comes to technology. A key tenet
of their culture is that technology is best when it is
seamlessly integrated into things. Flashy tech takes
away from more important things in life like quiet
contemplation, religious worship, industriousness
and family. Despite the Syleans being devoted to the
Imperium as much as anyone else, one rarely sees
the Imperial Sunburst or similar iconography within
its borders. What one does see is a devotion to
culture. The art, architecture, religions, style of dress
and dominant philosophies of the Sylean Worlds
are distinctly different than those seen outside the
boundaries of the cultural region. Within these
borders, the Syleans are allowed to be Syleans.
There are no navy or scout bases within its borders,
except on two worlds: Capital and Yirsh Poy, both
of which are in the Core subsector. The defence of
the cultural region is left to external star systems
along its borders. It was not always this way. The
Sylean Worlds were as heavily militarised as any
other Imperial world up until the end of the Civil War.
The Emperors of the Flag made the Core and Kaskii
subsectors their own private war zone. The Sylean

