The Chasmata Sylea

Kaskii has two stellar chasms, one to coreward that averages three parsecs in width and another to
rimward that runs four to six parsecs wide. The two are collectively known as the Chasmata Sylea;
the smaller called Chasma Sylea Minor and the larger Chasma Sylea Major. In frontier sectors, such
as the Spinward Marches, stellar voids like these are simply seen as an impediment, an inconvenient
absence of stars that one must circumnavigate. In sectors like the Core, these regions present a threat
to the security of the empire.
In 1056, Solomani supremacists built a secret deep-space outpost one parsec from the Riid Irman
system. The Solomani had acquired several large planetoids from the Riid Irman belt and took them
into the Chasma Sylea Major using disposable jump drives. They intended to accelerate the planetoids
to near-relativistic speeds to impact on Sevan, thereby destroying the world. While the Solomani did
everything they could to maintain the secrecy of their mission, Imperial Naval Intelligence agents
intercepted them in the Shashuua system and prevented the catastrophic event from happening. The
Imperium had long feared that terrorists or insurgent organisations might try something like this, perhaps
with Capital itself as the target. The event resulted in the immediate funding of Project Shortbow, which is
intended to prevent an attack like this from happening.
Because of the threat to security that the Chasmata present, these deep-space regions and others like
them are regularly patrolled by the Imperial Navy and Scout Service. The Imperium has placed dozens
of refuelling caches and space stations in many of the empty parsecs of the Chasmata, although their
exact location is a state secret. Travelling into stellar voids is tricky business. Jump technology relies on
the presence of large gravity wells that are used by astrogators to plot their courses; these are obviously
lacking in deep space. Generally speaking, if one wants to actually find an object that has been planted
in the empty depths of space, it must be equipped with a communications device that broadcasts its
location, lest it be lost. For this reason, bases emplaced in the Chasmata are equipped with sophisticated
equipment that makes them easy to find if one knows where to look.
The methods used to patrol the chasms are not perfect but until Project Shortbow goes online, they will
have to do. Along with the diligent work of the Imperial intelligence agencies, they have thus far averted
a major catastrophe from taking place. Meanwhile, the Imperial Navy has catalogued thousands of deep
space objects within the Chasmata, the locations of which are classified.

Indshiim Ganme

A look at its basic features reveals nothing out of
the ordinary. Indshiim Ganme is roughly Earth-like
in size and atmospheric composition. The majority
of its surface is covered in water and it has only two
small continents and thousands of islands scattered

Indshiim Ganme is blanketed by nearly constant
storms with winds that reach up to 1,200 kilometres per
hour, scouring its land masses of all but a few hardy
life forms. The primary factors are its axial tilt of 52o,
rotation period of only six hours and proximity to its
star. The high rotation rate creates a strong Coriolis
effect and dozens of Hadley cells that cause extreme
weather effects. In addition, the world is on the inward
portion of the habitable zone, subjecting it to a high
level of stellar radiation, which accelerates its winds.
Its atmosphere, magnetic field and other factors are

Kaskii

When looking at the Core sector, one of its notable
features is a complete lack of Red Zone worlds. A
Red Zone designation indicates that a world or even
entire star system has been interdicted for some
reason. The Core certainly had its share of Red
Zone-worthy worlds at one time but thousands of
years of settlement, terraforming and adaptation has
changed that. Indshiim Ganme was once one of its
Red Zone worlds.

over its surface. Its primary star is a placid yellow
dwarf, slightly smaller and cooler than Sol. Despite
its seeming habitability, Indshiim Ganme suffers from
a number of unusual characteristics that make it an
extremely challenging environment.

165

