T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

suitable to support life but the added stellar energy
exacerbates the world’s meteorological conditions,
making it difficult for land-based life to exist.
This extreme environment was enough to deter
colonists from settling the planet during the era of
the Ziru Sirka. Solomani settlers also passed it by
during the Rule of Man, opting only to install a space
station in its L4 Lagrange point to serve as a stopover
between the Likhamii, Ispumer and Khiinra Ash
systems. Only in the era of the Third Imperium has
there been an effort to explore the world. In 856, a
Sylean expedition out of Khuir built a space elevator
to the surface of the planet. The primary cable was
built with bonded superdense alloys, making it strong
enough to endure the harsh weather. The exorbitantly
expensive project was a gamble but one which would
pay off if they were able to find and extract resources
from this potentially rich world.

Kaskii

The windswept surface of Indshiim Ganme revealed
little in the way of valuable resources but surveys of
its oceans made startling discoveries. The world is
host to a plethora of advanced life forms, all of which
live just beneath the surface of the water. The most
advanced of these are an intelligent species of filter/
scavengers that inhabit depths of 20–100 metres and
appear to have achieved approximately TL1–2. The
Syleans have named them the Ganmeids. Most of their
structures were built in cavern systems on escarpments
and sea mounts that shielded them from discovery by
orbital probes. An IISS exploration team was brought
in to examine the species but contact has not yet been
made. The expedition eventually became a colony
based at the refurbished Rule of Man-era space station.
No permanent habitations have been established on
the surface of the planet, nor in its waters, but some
resource extraction has occurred. The Scout Service
has petitioned the Syleans to have the world interdicted
but no final decision has yet been made.

166

Ganmeids are a roughly human-sized water-breathing
species that survive by filtering nutrients from the
turbulent waters near the surface of their oceans and
consuming the carcasses of dead animals found in the
shallows near the coasts and on sea mounts. They
communicate by emitting high-pitched sounds when at
a distance but typically resort to hand signals and other
forms of non-verbal communication when within a few
metres of each other.

Alien

Hits

Speed

Ganmeid

24

12m (aquatic)

Skills

Athletics (dexterity) 1, Melee (natural) 1,
Recon 1, Survival 2

Attacks

Bite (1D+3)

Traits

Aquatic, Armour (+4), Camouflaged,
Echolocation, Heightened Senses

Behaviour Filter, Scavenger

R

