Khiinra Ash

Khiinra Ash is a moon of a circumbinary gas giant called
Khamikurde Anku, which orbits the system’s pair of red
dwarf stars. The two stars have similar mass and they orbit
one another closely. The larger of the two accretes a small
amount of mass from the smaller, making them what is
known as a semidetached binary pair.
Khiinra Ash is a massive moon with a diameter of
nearly 17,000 kilometres and a gravity of 1.9G. It orbits
its gas giant once every 63 hours, exposing both of its
hemispheres to the twin stars of the system, thereby
giving it some semblance of a day-night cycle. The moon
has liquid water oceans, two massive continents and
several hundred islands, some of which are arranged in
long, winding archipelagos. Because of its high gravity,
Khiinra Ash has no large mountain ranges to speak of but
its porous, cracked land masses have enormous canyon
systems, some of which are over 100km in depth. The
atmosphere on the surface is trace but a thin oxygennitrogen atmosphere may be found deep in the canyons.
Not surprisingly, this is also where its complex land-based
life resides. Khiinra Ash is an unlikely candidate to harbour
life and yet it has a teeming biosphere.

The Bhu’oovaakaylaa are classified as a Minor Race
with human-level intelligence. They are currently at
approximately TL2 with some tool manufacturing
that extend to TL3. They are by and large a friendly
species and were initially contacted by Vilani scouts
thousands of years ago. The worldwide population of the
Bhu’oovaakaylaa is difficult to determine but the Scout
Services estimates that there are probably about 12
million of them. The listed population figure for the world
represents only the humans present.

Alien

Hits

Speed

Bhu’oovaakaylaa

70

6m (aquatic),
4m (flight)

Skills

Athletics (dexterity) 2, Flyer
(natural) 2, Melee (natural) 1,
Recon 2, Survival 1

Attacks

Bite (2D)

Traits

Amphibious, Armour (+2),
Heightened Senses, Large (+2)

Behaviour

Omnivore

Kaskii

At the apex of the world’s life forms are the
Bhu’oovaakaylaa, an immense species that defies strict
definition. The species has two sexes, each of which weigh
about four tons with females slightly larger than males.
They bear live young, usually in litters of two or three,
which are immediately mobile upon birth. Bhu’oovaakaylaa
have a thick, elongated body with rear flippers for
swimming, an armoured carapace on their dorsal surface
like that of a crustacean, two dextrous appendages that
end in three fingers with an opposable thumb and a headlike structure at the front. The head has four eyes that
wrap most of the way around it to provide 270o vision. The
species is omnivorous with a large mouth that contains a
dozen large molar-like teeth to masticate plant food and
sharp incisors in the front to bite off chunks of meat from
animals. The Bhu’oovaakaylaa have an internal bladder
with which they extract gaseous elements from the
atmosphere for various purposes. When filled, the bladder
enables them to float short distances.

169

