T

While it is not classified as such, Khiinra Ash
is effectively a reserve, with few humans living
permanently on its surface. The high gravity makes it
uncomfortable for humans but the Bhu’oovaakaylaa
welcome expeditions when they come. When
offered Red Zone status, they declined. They are a
philosophical species and while few have ever left
the planet – due to their size and highly specified
adaptations – they welcome the idea that they
are members of an interstellar community. The
Bhu’oovaakaylaa enjoy speaking with visitors of all
races, learning more about them and engaging in
spirited debates. They speak in deep bellows and
communication with them is loud and ponderous. They
are a long-lived species, with an average lifespan of
over 300 years and they seem to be in no hurry to rush
through a conversation.
Khiinra Ash Highport is a serviceable and friendly
facility but its technology is outdated. The staff see
themselves as ambassadors to the Bhu’oovaakaylaa
civilisation and are helpful to offworlders, for whom
they maintain a selection of high-G apparatuses and
exoskeletons to make wandering the surface of Khiinra
Ash more comfortable.

Kaskii

Markasher

170

The mainworld of the Markasher system is not a
planet at all but simply one of the larger planetoids
of its two belts, Markasher α (the inner belt) and
Markasher β (the outer belt). This ‘world’ is fortuitously
located in a less dense region between the two belts
where collisions are rare. Most of the system’s actual
terrestrial planets are far into the outer zone of the
system’s orange giant star, Kalyptus. This star is
well on its way along the red giant branch and will
one day swell to enormous size, consuming both
belts. Fortunately for Markasher’s residents, this will
not occur for many millions of years. The system
has no gas giants so there are no ready sources for
wilderness refuelling.
Markasher’s rich belts have been exploited for
centuries by the Conglomerate, a collection of mostly
Sylean mining concerns whose leadership positions
are passed on hereditarily or by the appointment of
the previous owner. Markasheri mining ‘clans’ work in

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

concert to extract the resources from the belts that are
needed to build infrastructure for the high-population
worlds of the Kashii subsector. Thousands of hollowedout planetoids contain a variety of habitats, few of
which have artificial gravity. In most cases, these
planetoids have been given spin to simulate gravity but
in others the belters live in low- or zero-G environments
for their entire lives, which has an adverse effect on
their health. Most of their maladies – muscle atrophy
and osteoporosis, to name a few – can be treated
with exercise, intervals spent in higher G and modern
medicine but the austere Conglomerate does little to
provide treatment. Aid groups from Mikhag Kuu have
come to the system to purchase abandoned planetoid
habitations, which they intend to outfit with artificial
gravity so they can be used to provide ‘regeneration
intervals’ for the Markasheri. The self-reliant
government is not pleased with this development, as it
could create unrest among the masses who might start
to demand such services.
Inhabited planetoids are fitted with surveillance
equipment that closely monitors the activities of
Markasheri citizens, although allegedly this is only
present to monitor the traffic of sublight mining barges
and other spacecraft. Abnormalities in traffic and the
movement of mineral payloads are watched closely to
prevent claim jumping and smuggling. Markasher has
an extremely high Law Level and a low tolerance for
criminal behaviour. Relatively minor infractions have
been known to result in one-way trips out of an airlock
without the benefit of a vacc suit.
Markasher system has a soft interdiction in place.
While Travellers are not forbidden to pass through the
system, there is no official starport and no refuelling
services to speak of. Any fuel present is owned
by individual clans, who use it to operate sublight
spacecraft. Visitors who enter the Markasher system
without making arrangements ahead of time have no
place to go. Unscheduled visitors have been known to
sit in docking queues for weeks before being allowed
to park their ships at one of the system’s rudimentary
spaceports. Stranded craft sometimes resort to
‘ice cracking’, finding a planetoid with frozen water,
breaking it down and refining it for hydrogen fuel. This
practice is forbidden and violators can expect anything
from an extremely stiff fine to incarceration on a zero-G
planetoid or, in extreme cases, ejection from an airlock.

R

