Bunkeria is defended by the Imperial Navy’s 217th
Fleet, one of the smallest numbered fleets in all of the
Core with only two full-time squadrons. A rarity in the
Imperium, Bunkeria’s 217th Colonial Fleet is actually
larger than its numbered fleet with four full squadrons
at its disposal. The ships of the official 217th are highly
capable TL15 spacecraft with jump-4 capability while
the Colonial 217th is composed of locally built ships that
average TL13 and jump-3. Bunkeria’s Colonial Navy
ships are some of the most colourful in the fleet, adorned
with the martial regalia and names of heroes from their
vibrant historical past. Because of how few squadrons
it has, the 217th primarily patrols the worlds along the
Sylean Main, while the 217th Colonial patrols the interior
of Bunkeria including the Irlu and Dral Clusters.
Sketola is the capital of the subsector and headquarters
of both the subsector and Colonial fleets. The economic
powerhouse of Bunkeria is the F’rnow system, home
of the sector-wide Achenaar Antilles Line, which was
founded during the era of the Interstellar Confederacy
and remains one of the most powerful corporations in
all of the Core. Achenaar Antilles has over 1,000 ships
in its fleet, most of which operate on the Sylean Main.
The Imperium is leery of Bunkeria’s independent
streak but have been cautious not to spoil a good
thing. In spite of its relatively small population, the
spirited worlds of Bunkeria have done their part to help
grow the traffic along the Sylean Main. Furthermore,
the subsector is remarkably stable with only one
world classified as an Amber Zone. While Bunkeria is
certainly not the Core’s best and brightest locale, it has
undeniable appeal and a seemingly bright future.

Hellhole

The Revived Grand Senate on Sketola snaps up as
much of Hellhole’s product as it can using loans from
the Achenaar Antilles Line. Sketola claims that these
resources are used to maintain the Colonial Navy but
the Imperium has begun to cry foul. There simply is
no way that all of the extracted materials could be
put to use by one provincial navy, or so the Imperium
believes. Auditors from the Office of the Exchequer
have descended upon Hellhole to make sure nothing
is amiss.

Irlu

The Meritocracy of Irlu purportedly uses a nonpartisan
selection process to identify and appoint the bestqualified sophonts among its population to fill its
administrative and governmental positions. Like so
many other corrupt bureaucracies, its levers have
been usurped by those in power to obtain roles for
selected allies and family members regardless of
their qualifications. While the selection process still
manages to see to it that some of the cream rises to
the top, the system has become so corrupt that many
of its offices and institutions have been rendered
utterly ineffective.
One of the organisations that does seem to work
rather well is the Office of Mercenary Affairs (OMA).
Due to unusual circumstances, the OMA was tasked
with the coordination of defence forces for nearly
all the worlds of Bunkeria. When the Interstellar
Confederacy was integrated into the Imperium, the
armies and militias of its member worlds surrendered
their arms and were occupied first by Sylean forces
and later by the Imperial Army.
The young Imperium was unable to sustain the
occupation and sought to return Bunkeria’s pacified
worlds to local control. During the Confederacy
Era, the world of Marsus was a renowned exporter
of mercenary forces. Unfortunately, Marsus had
fallen on hard times after fighting on the wrong
side of the Civil War. Even after its decline,
Marsusian mercenaries remained some of the
best-qualified fighting forces in the subsector. The

Bunkeria

The aptly named Hellhole has always been a difficult
world to live on but also one that has been deemed worth
the trouble. The planet has been stripped of its crust by
multiple deep impacts over its long history, giving mining
companies easy access to the exotic minerals and heavy
metals in its exposed mantle. Unfortunately, its surface is
teeming with radioactivity, which made it a deadly place
to work during the era of the Interstellar Confederacy
when its miners only had access to TL12 safety gear.
Now under Imperial management, there are very few
human miners on its surface with most of the work being
done by high-tech radiation-shielded robots. Almost all
of Hellhole’s population lives on the close-orbit highport
or one of its Lagrange-point processing and shipping
centres. Mining activity is performed remotely by well-paid
remote operations engineers who do the delicate work
of extracting Hellhole’s abundant resources from a safe
distance of 1,000km.

While gifted with a placid, long-lived star, the entire
Hellhole system has barely a drop of water or wisp
of atmosphere on its 11 planets. With no gas giants
or planetoid belts to speak of, ships cannot perform
wilderness refuelling. Liquid hydrogen must be
imported into the system, making it exorbitantly
expensive. Travellers can expect to pay three times
the standard price for fuel, all of which is refined at
the highport.

175

