CEMPLAS

Many worlds of Cemplas were members of the
Interstellar Confederacy, which challenged the Sylean
Federation for dominance of the Core before the rise
of the Third Imperium. Cemplas is a region of sharp
contrasts. Unlike the former Confederacy worlds in
Bunkeria, those of Cemplas underwent a difficult
transition into the Imperium, which in many ways was
never fully consummated. Bunkeria rarely saw direct
conflict with Sylean forces but major wars were fought
on the worlds of Cemplas, some of which still bear the
scars today. Because of this, there was a great deal
more resentment towards the Syleans and their new
Imperium. Many of these worlds grudgingly relented
to Imperial authority and developed cultures that take
umbrage to any perceived interference in their affairs.
Time heals all wounds but even after 1,000 years,
there are feelings of mistrust between the close-knit
worlds of Cemplas and its Imperial overlords. While a
large-scale insurgency would be virtually impossible to
carry out, Imperial intelligence agencies keep a close
eye on Cemplas for any trouble that might be brewing.
There is little danger of outright rebellion but Cemplas
is on a shorter leash than Bunkeria and probably
always will be.
The spirit of rebellion lives on in Cemplas. It is a place
of both great wealth and immense challenges. Cemplas
is home to some of the most technologically advanced
worlds in all of the Core but also harbours some of
its most oppressive dictatorships. Cemplas has four
industrial worlds, three of which – Bendo, Keplo and
Shibashliim – are ideally located along the Sylean
Main. Near the heart of the Core and in close proximity
to Capital, these worlds are of great importance to

178

Cemplas and the region at large. Bendo and Keplo
manufacture low- to mid-tech consumer goods and
the factories of Shibashliim – which cover the majority
of the planet’s surface and sprawling swaths of its
sea bed – produce high-end computer systems and
electronics. The governors of Shibashliim have large
stakes in the megacorporation Naasirka, which holds
a monopoly of the planet’s industrial capital. The fourth
industrial world, Lishiruud, is located in the rimward
portion of the subsector and sits upon a small jump1 main where competing merchant companies run
liners and megafreighters and operate a network of
subsidised merchant routes in the surrounding markets.
Innovation in Cemplas is fuelled by the Imperial Navy,
which has ultra-high-tech research and development
centres on Celetron and Ye-lu. Both are on the verge
of major breakthroughs in automation and artificial
intelligence. Celetron is developing autonomous
starships and Ye-lu has all of its essential functions
controlled by an AI computer network. Both worlds
are high-value strategic assets and heavily defended
by the 160th Fleet. While they are fully engaged in
the development of military hardware and software,
each has agencies that share consumer-oriented tech
with civilian firms. Meanwhile, private companies on
Shibashliim are competing in the cutting-edge field of
matter transport. While some are close to being able
to transmit small amounts of matter across continental
distances, a few niche companies are attempting to use
the technology to teleport radio waves across an entire
star system. If successful, they will have invented the
Imperium’s first working FTL communications device.

