Biirke

In a frontier sector, Biirke is the type of system that
might be left barren but in the Core there are no such
places. The system’s bright white main sequence star
and its unstable red dwarf companion have swept most
of the resource-poor planets clean of atmospheres and
water, leaving little reason for settlers to stay. Biirke
itself is a cold dustball chosen by a small resourcedevelopment company to host an automated Class D
highport. Small craft pilots were hired to fly tankers to
and from the system’s gas giants, bringing unrefined
liquid hydrogen to be sold as fuel. Robots would
be there to help visiting Travellers refuel their ships
quickly and efficiently so they could move on to more
promising ports of call. When the expected traffic failed
to materialise and the company went bankrupt, the
facility was abandoned. It turns out that most visitors to
the system had opted to perform wilderness refuelling
rather than travel to the out-of-the-way starport.
About a decade later, the mothballed starport was
salvaged and refurbished by belters who had been
fruitlessly searching Biirke’s planetoid belts for
prospects. The savvy belters stripped the idle robots
of their brains, reprogrammed them and fitted them
into the tankers, which now make perpetual fuel runs
to and from the gas giants, constantly replenishing
the station’s fuel supply. While Biirke’s appeal has
scarcely improved, traffic to the port has experienced
a noticeable uptick. The belters turned it into a co-op,
offering a share to others in their profession provided
they participate in the highport maintenance rotation.
They converted two of the station’s four docking bays
into a market bazaar, which visiting merchants use to
trade speculative cargo with each other. Members of
the co-op recently salvaged an abandoned subsidised
merchant, which they intend to refit and hire out to
a crew, provided they limit their operations to the
Lishiruud Cluster.

Ehok-ta

The workers elect a Civic Council that runs a union,
requests infrastructure improvements, operates utilities
and manages the purchase of offworld foodstuffs
and other goods. The Council advises Ne-ka-otabi
corporate officers on what the population needs but the
company is under no legal obligation to do anything
other than pay their employees. The operation has
an opportunity to do extremely well, making the
company and its employees rich. However, despite
bringing in impressive resource hauls, Ne-ka-otabi has
struggled to make a profit thus far. To make matters
worse, the city’s gravitic pylons have been failing at
an alarming rate. The extraction bots, purchased on
Shibashliim, have been performing to expectations
but the technology that keeps the city afloat has been
subpar. Its gravitic support system has multi-redundant
safeguards, so there is no imminent danger of it
plunging into the crushing depths of Ehok-ta but the
frequent failure alarms and subsequent costs incurred
for repairs are unnerving for the city’s residents. Many
question the decision making of the Ne-ka-otabi
executives and have petitioned to have them replaced.

Heraldia

Heraldia is a trinary system with three red dwarf stars,
the largest of which is in distant circumbinary orbit
around the smaller two, which orbit each other around
a common centre of mass. There are two key worlds
in the system: Heraldia and Gyga. Heraldia orbits UliBeta, the second largest star in the system, while the
gas giant Gyga orbits Uli-Alpha, the largest of the three
red dwarves.
Heraldia was once a strategically important world
of the Interstellar Confederacy and bore the brunt
of the assault from the Sylean Federation during
the war between the two powers. To avoid the long
end-around through Velpare, Sylean squadrons often
entered the fray at Heraldia. Confederacy forces were
stretched thin trying to defend both Heraldia and
Gyga. The battles around Gyga left dozens of wrecks
behind, most of which have plummeted into the gas
giant’s gravity well over the centuries. The few that
remain have been preserved and converted into war
memorials and tourist attractions. Heraldia itself also
bears the scars of the war. Its atmosphere was tainted

Cemplas

Virtually all of Ehok-ta’s 10,000 inhabitants are in the
employ of Ne-ka-otabi, an entrepreneurial venture
run by Syleans and Bwaps (refer to the Traveller
Companion or Aliens of Charted Space Volume 3 for
more on the Bwaps). The firm used a large portion of its
seed money to purchase a small gravitic city that was
designed and built to their specifications by General
Products, LIC. Ne-ka-otabi uses industrial robots from
Shibashliim to mine the resources of the planet below.
The gravity, atmospheric pressure and heat on the
surface is much too high for a permanent settlement

but it is rich in rare-earth minerals and petrochemicals.
The city floats high above the clouds where the
temperature and atmosphere are more comfortable.
Even at high altitude, the air is dense and humid, which
is just fine for Bwaps but often a bit uncomfortable for
human inhabitants.

181

