T

R

A

V

E

L

Khusgurlu

with fallout from the orbital bombardment of its cities
and its hydrosphere was virtually eliminated, leaving
the world a desert wasteland. Heraldians were forced
into domed and subterranean structures to survive the
intense stellar radiation from the system’s three suns.
Life is hard on Heraldia but even after 1,200 years the
descendants of those who fought here have a solemn
pride in their ancestry.

TRINARY STAR SYSTEM
4
2

3
6

Cemplas
1. Heraldia
2. Gyga
3. Uli–Beta M7 V
4. Uli–Alpha M2 V
5. Uli–Gamma M8 V
6. Common Centre of Mass

182

E

The supreme pontiff of Khusgurlu is Aulonn JhourdanValestin. While this particular ‘instance’ of the man has
led the Church of the Chosen Few for only the last
two decades, he has in a way led it for the last 2,000
years. Jhourdan-Valestin and virtually all 20 billion
of his parishioners are clones. The Church keeps a
catalogue of approximately 12 billion approved DNA
templates, each of which is a permanent ‘citizen’
of the planet. Some twins are allowed to occur
but triplets are prevented by the cloning process.
Approximately five billion Khusgurluans are duplicates,
so at any one time there might be two or three clones
of one template in circulation. After one lives a full
life and dies a natural death – anagathics are strictly
forbidden – they are `resurrected` by having their
template implanted into and taken to term by a female.
The Church is monotheistic and the people believe
that God protects them and grants them ‘immortality’
in exchange for strict adherence to its rituals. While
coital behaviour between couples is allowed as a

Many worlds celebrate war-time glories but few do so
with the fervour of Heraldia. Just about every particle
accelerator burn, nuclear crater, blasted grav tank and
wrecked structure has been marked as a historical site.
At the extremes, the dropped plasma rifles and suits
of combat armour worn by key war heroes have been
preserved under transparent plasteel right where they
fell in action. Heraldians chafe at the suggestion that
they have gone overboard worshipping the sites of
their ancestors’ sacrifices. Martyrdom is big business
on Heraldia and the world attracts millions of tourists
each year. During peak months, the tourist population
outnumbers the planet’s permanent residents.

1

L

5

R

