ritual activity, natural reproduction is not. Motherhood
only occurs at the behest of the Church and only
through implantation. Despite a comprehensive
high-tech surveillance network and virtually infallible
contraception, natural childbirths do occur from timeto-time. Natural reproduction is a high crime and
punishable by the death of both parents and their
naturally created child. The parents are referred to as
‘heretics’ and children as ‘abominations’.
It should be noted that Khusgurlu’s use of cloning
technology and consciousness templates treads a
fine line with recent Imperial law. In 1070, Emperor
Paulo III ruled that consciousness transfer is a crime
because it tampers with the mind of a sentient life
form. The Church of the Chosen Few got around the
law by establishing that its clones are not fitted with
the consciousnesses of live individuals but merely with
copies of a template. The templates themselves are
artificial constructs, none of which are based on brain
patterns extracted from actual living beings, or at least
so the Church claims. The practice began during the
murk of the Long Night and there is no concrete proof
to the contrary.
Upon resurrection, most Khusgurluans embark upon
a unique life experience, meaning they do not fill the
same role or live in the same geographic location as
their previous clone; however, a favourite pastime is
looking into the Church’s extensive databases to see
one’s past lives. The texts and holovideos are edited
to convey the virtues of a duty-bound, pious lifestyle.
While they may have filled many roles during previous
lives – perhaps a genetic scientist in one life, a soldier
in another and a labourer in the one after that – these
histories convey a frightening consistency designed to
encourage conformity and obedience. No one wants
to view their past lives to discover they were rebellious
and brought shame to the church or had dangerous
independent thoughts.

The Church of the Chosen Few is loyal to the Imperium
and willingly subscribes to the notion that Capital is its
political nexus; however, they believe that Khusgurlu is
its spiritual centre and that the Imperium would greatly
benefit from adopting similar rituals. Missionaries from
the Church are commonly encountered throughout
the Core. While they do not invite offworlders to their
own planet, they do encourage them to adopt Church
practices and have built temples on worlds throughout
the Core. Khusgurluans who have proven their piety
are allowed to serve in the Imperial armed forces,
which they use as yet another opportunity to evangelise
their religion. Anyone allowed to leave their homeworld
is implanted with surveillance augments to ensure they
remain faithful.

Velpare

Velpare is a key stop along the Sylean Main, linking
the Keplo and Vvrin Clusters. The system primary is a
long-lived orange main sequence star called Auroralari.
The richness of Auroralari’s planetary disk gave birth
to several worlds and gas giant moons with a diverse
array of atmospheric compositions. Velpare itself is
gifted with a breathable oxygen-nitrogen mix and a
lush biosphere of highly evolved flora and fauna. Much
like Capital, Velpare has a larger-than-normal molten
iron core, giving it higher gravity and a more powerful
magnetosphere than would otherwise be present for a
world of its size.
Velpare was the site of a famous battle between the
Interstellar Confederacy and the Sylean Federation.
Disorganised Confederacy naval forces were no
match for the strategic savvy of Sylean Commodore
Orori Rudolph. However, the Syleans went a bridge
too far by bucking orders and launching an orbital
assault in which their marines were soundly defeated
by Velparian army and militia forces. The commodore
and his officer corps were subjected to a court martial
and subsequent dishonourable discharge for their

Cemplas

While its origins are lost in the murk of history, the
Church of the Chosen Few is thought to have resulted
from the struggles of the Long Night. Khusgurlu,
a moon of the system’s innermost gas giant, was
the site of a Vilani colony that was left intact by the
Terrans during the Rule of Man. The system has
reasonably rich resources in its planetoid belt and
other gas giant moons (it has no independent planets)
but Khusgurlu itself is its only marginally habitable
world and only just. Its intemperate red dwarf star
spews flares every few decades, most of which only
last a few hours. When Khusgurlu is occluded by

its gas giant, it suffers few effects. When it is not,
the flares strip away much of its atmosphere which
is, over time, restored by the world’s abundant
genetically engineered plant life. The flares had
historically caused a large number of deaths and
genetic mutations, endangering the viability of the
colony. To prevent its collapse, Khusgurluan scientists
developed a library of genetic templates, which they
kept in circulation through an implantation process.
It is likely that the Church is an outgrowth of this
meticulous process.

183

