T

actions. Having saved face and maintained the pristine
condition of their world, Confederacy forces sued for
peace and were granted self-rule provided they pledge
fealty to Sylea. This they did and their government
gradually evolved into a non-charismatic dictatorship
in which their leader became Duke of Velpare. As the
centuries passed and the Third Imperium took charge,
Velparian leadership became more autocratic, which
resulted in a number of revolts and terrorist attacks
by resistance forces. These were violently put down
and the world was eventually occupied by forces
from Shibashliim, which established military rule.
In 978, rebels infiltrated the garrison, assassinated
several Shibashliimi officers and destroyed key
strategic resources, expelling the tyrannical duke to
the equatorial jungles. Imperial arbitrators brokered an
armistice by which the Shibashliimi were expelled from
the system and self-rule was restored.

Cemplas

The exiled duke is still the official representative of
Velpare but the world is now effectively governed
by five baronies, which oversee the world’s cities,
agricultural districts and wildlife preserves. Ironically,
Velpare was made capital of Cemplas one month after
the coup, thereby promoting the exiled noble to the
role of subsector duke. In the absence of the duke,
the barons collectively share the responsibility of
representing Cemplas.

184

The barons of Velpare lead with a light touch and
allow for a great many personal freedoms including
the possession of non-military weapons for selfdefence. House militias may legally use military
weapons provided they pledge to engage in joint
exercises and assist with the planet’s defence
should the need arise. Unfortunately, the spectre of
dictatorship and the occupation still haunts Velpare.
The ousted duke remains in hiding, using superior
Shibashliimi technology to mask the presence of his
forces. No one knows if the original duke still rules
or if his successors are now in charge. The group
occasionally raids baronial farms and perpetrates acts
of terrorism, destroying public buildings, infrastructure
and settlements on the periphery of Velpare Downport.
Rumour has it the barons plan to pool their resources
to hire offworld mercenaries to assist them with the
expulsion of the duke and his army. Since the duke
is still ostensibly a member of the Peerage, no one is
quite sure how the Imperium will react to such a move.
Furthermore, other members of the Moot have pointed
out that Velpare is a case in point for why it is best

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

to keep Imperium bureaucracy and world leadership
separate. Leading members of the advisory body have
petitioned the Emperor to separate the powers but he
has thus far resisted their requests to do so.
In spite of its problems, Velpare welcomes interstellar
commerce and offworld immigrants in an attempt to
further establish its presence on the Sylean Main.
Velpare is a beautiful world with sprawling primeval
forests, equatorial rainforests and extensive mountain
ranges that attract tourists and adventurous Travellers
from throughout the Core. Its cosmopolitan cities are
popular destinations, known for their excellent cuisine,
all of which is made from locally grown ingredients.
Their post popular dishes are spiced with extracts
of the varinte plant, which is prized for its flavour
throughout the Core and beyond.
Velpare hosts both Imperial Navy and scout bases. The
bulk of scout personnel are from the Communications
branch, which coordinates x-boat routes and starship
resources along the entire Sylean Main.

Ye-lu

Ye-lu is one of two worlds in Cemplas wholly owned by
the Imperial Navy, the other being Celetron. Ye-lu is a
tiny airless rockball that serves as the testing ground
for an automated conscious intelligence that runs the
entire planet. This software, which answers to the name
‘Mother’, uses advanced, nearly instantaneous meson
communicators for all of its instructions.
The Imperial government and – to a lesser degree –
its armed forces have always had an irrational fear
of artificial intelligence, borne of their partially Vilani
heritage and various mishaps that have occurred over
the ages. While the Ye-lu installation and those like it
are controversial, there are legally mandated mitigation
technologies present that prevent applications like
Mother from being truly autonomous. Ye-lu skirts these
regulations very closely.
The entire world is, metaphorically speaking, a multicellular organism. Mother controls all of its computer
systems, utilities, thousands of robots and trillions
of microbots and nanites, making her own decisions
about what needs to be added, removed or altered as
demands change. On a given day, personnel at the
station might notice a new wing under construction
without knowing about it ahead of time. Mother
posts all of her activities in a database accessible

R

