CHANT

The Chant subsector currently has a population
of about 13.7 billion. At its peak, it had over 14
times that. Chant has been continuously settled for
over 7,000 years dating back to the original Vilani
expansion into the Core but over the millennia,
ecological collapse, war and the effects of the Long
Night decimated its worlds. The remnants of lost
civilisations are everywhere, in particular at Merat
and Avthaus where sprawling Vilani ruins sit sideby-side with the structures of the modern Imperium.
On Effinity, the deserts and equatorial marshes have
reclaimed the ruins and new cities have sprung up in
the temperate latitudes to take their place.

burgeoning piracy problem in the rimward portion of the
subsector. The Imperial Navy normally takes a heavy
hand against pirates but because Chant is so close to
Capital, they are addressing the problem with a lighter
touch. That such a thing as piracy could even occur so
close to the throne world is an embarrassment and if
word were to get out to the greater Imperium, it would
be a public relations nightmare. Piracy results from
economic strife and the Imperium hopes to rejuvenate
Chant’s ailing worlds. While the navy is not averse to
using force, they are attempting to win hearts and minds
instead. They hope to provide viable alternatives for
those who have turned to piracy.

Some have compared Chant to the picked over
remains of a long-dead carcass. Others call it ‘the sick
man of the Core’. Its resources have been plundered
for thousands of years and it has been a bloody
battlefield more times than anyone cares to remember.
Perhaps the greatest killer of all was the Plague of
Duskir, the slew of Terran diseases that wiped out
billions of Vilani.

There is no single reason for the severe decline of
the rimward worlds. There are many factors that have
contributed to their fall but corruption, nepotism and
cronyism are by far the greatest culprits. Astrography
plays a part as well with the region being surrounded
by several small- to mid-sized stellar gaps, which
impede the flow of information and make for a spotty
economy. Chant is also bordered on its rimward flank
by the Chanestin worlds, which are isolationist and
therefore rarely trade with outsiders.

With its population in freefall and its economy in
tatters, things have certainly been better for Chant.
Nevertheless, there is reason for hope. While Chant
is a shadow of its former self, there are signs of a
resurgence. The subsector retains several of its Class
A and B starports, propped up by Imperial subsidies.
Industrial worlds Skeen and Raami, two of the oldest
civilisations in the sector, have pledged to revitalise
Chant. The Achenaar Antilles Line has opened
up a hub at Anther from which they have plans to
reinvigorate trade on the trailing spur of the Sylean
Main. Emperor Strephon himself has invested a portion
of his personal wealth in the region and solicited
trillions more from the megacorporations. As far as the
Emperor is concerned, it simply will not do to have an
economic disaster of this scale on Capital’s doorstep.
Chant is defended by the Imperial Navy’s 2nd Fleet,
which consists of only three squadrons. The ships of the
2nd are outdated, underfunded and desperately in need
of a refit. Fortunately, the fleet has more than its share
of auxiliary spacecraft, many of which are dealing with a

186

The future of Chant is very much in question. Relief
has begun to flow in from external sources but the
subsector has more than its share of kleptocrats who
misappropriate funds and redirect them to their own
coffers. It will require more than just the good will of the
Emperor to save Chant from plummeting even further
into decline.

Anther

Anther is a vacuum world on the coreward periphery
of Chant. The system has poor resources but is
strategically located on the Sylean Main and has five
gas giants, which makes wilderness refuelling easy for
visiting Travellers. The system primary is an orange
subgiant, an immense star that has begun its long
transformation process along the red-giant branch. While
Anther is a small world, it is theorised that it once had a
trace atmosphere and liquid water that evaporated away
as its primary grew in size.

