As the nexus of no fewer than six trade and
communications routes, Anther is ground zero for
the Chant Subsector Rejuvenation Project (CSRP).
Its starport was recently upgraded to a sterling Class
A facility, complete with cutting-edge shipyard and
the best maintenance facilities in the subsector. The
highport is a large facility, befitting its enviable location
along the trade routes. The downport and adjacent
startown are modern, aesthetically attractive towers
with disc-like landing platforms and enclosed docking
bays. Residential and hospitality facilities are contained
in domes at the bases of each tower. Even before the
upgrades to its facilities, Anther experienced a high
volume of traffic and things have gotten noticeably
better since the work was completed. Unfortunately,
most ships are just passing through and that is a
problem. People currently see Chant as a ‘highway’
of sorts, an obstacle to get through to reach more
lucrative markets elsewhere. The Imperium wants to
see more traffic going rimward where the benefits of
trade might revitalise the subsector’s fortunes.

ALMA SANTOLUCIO

Alma is a humourless bureaucrat whose job it is to
ferret out corruption and expose it to higher-ups in
the Imperial Justice Department so they may seek
out offenders and prosecute them. Alma might
encounter the Travellers at Anther or another
busy port in the Chant subsector, where she will
request a working or basic passage aboard their
starship provided that they are travelling rimward
towards the more troubled worlds. Alma is a
determined, if inexperienced, auditor/detective
and could use the Travellers’ help seeking out
those who misappropriate Imperial funds. She is a
bit of a blunderer and more than a little naïve, and
is therefore likely to run into all sorts of trouble,
mostly along the lines of offending dangerous
people who would just as soon not have illegal
activities exposed.

The CSRP has two key roles: economic evangelism
and public relations, both of which are to be achieved
by teams of administrators who flit about to the other
worlds of Chant. The evangelism component seeks
to entice the trader community to travel off the beaten
path and go to worlds they might otherwise ignore. The
public relations component consists of ‘Outrider’ teams,
which go to the underserved systems of Chant and
help them to become more attractive markets. Getting
these systems to cooperate is often more difficult than
one might think. The people of backwater worlds can
become accustomed to their limited prospects and are
often leery of offworlders who come to promise them a
brighter future.

ALMA SANTOLUCIO, IMPERIAL AUDITOR
SPECIES

GENDER

AGE

—

Female

—

TRAITS

—

SKILLS
Admin 2, Advocate 2,
Electronics (computers) 1,
Investigation 1, Persuade 1,
Profession (accounting) 2,
Streetwise 0, Vacc Suit 0

STR

5

INT

9

DEX

6

EDU

11

END

8

SOC

8

EQUIPMENT

Chant

CSRP agents are frequently encountered while travelling
through Chant, providing incentives for Travellers to take
the rimward route to the subsector’s less-developed
systems. Unfortunately, not all CSRP employees have
Chant’s best interests in mind. As with many well-funded
bureaucracies, corruption is an ever-present problem.
CSRP accounts have been raided by embezzlers and
hackers, many of whom have been given back-door
access by insiders. While the problem has not yet gotten
out of hand, if it gets much worse, it will begin to have
a deleterious effect on the agency’s efforts. High-level
officers at CSRP headquarters have been tasked with
addressing the issue.

Hand Computer, Decryptor (TL12)
Armour: Tailored Vacc Suit (+8)

189

