T

Chant

Chant

Chant has an unusual ecology that exists mostly
underground in and around its extensive aquifers and
underground reservoirs. These resources support
thousands of troglodytic animal species, mosses
and fungi, most of which never see the light of day.
The majority of desert worlds have little in the way
of atmosphere but Chant’s plant species employ
photosynthesis to provide one that is 28 percent
oxygen, 71 percent nitrogen with trace amounts of
carbon dioxide and other gases. The plants wind
their way upward through Chant’s porous crust to
the surface where they protrude with large flowering
surfaces to absorb the light of Ami, the system’s
orange main sequence star. Chant has a slow
rotation of 196.2 hours, making the local day well
over a standard week long. Photosynthesis on Chant
is based on retinal instead of chlorophyll, so most
plants are purple, lavender and sometimes pink.
Whichever side of the planet faces Ami is covered in
flowering plant life, while on the dark side the plants
retract into the earth to drink from its subterranean
water sources. The higher oxygen level means
that things catch fire more easily and burn longer.
Lightning strikes from Chant’s eerie ‘dry storms’ burn
desiccated plant life, creating sprawling wildfires that
can last for weeks and are part of the planet’s cycle
of life and death.

190

The sensitive ecology of the planet has been
preserved due to a lack of large-scale exploitation.
Chant has only small reserves of precious metals
and has never been heavily colonised. Wave after
wave of settlers skipped over the world, most of
whom moved on to resource-rich Skeen and Raami.
Chant is currently home to nine million inhabitants,
most of whom farm its unusual and resilient flowering
plants for export into foreign markets. The Duke
of Chant has a home on this world but spends the
majority of his time three parsecs away at Vvrin, the
subsector capital, or at Capital, where he is an active
participant in Moot deliberations.
Chant Downport is a high-quality but austere facility,
designed to accommodate diplomatic visitors to
the duke’s estate and tourists who come to roam
the world’s deserts. The downport has only a few
docking bays and is not equipped to handle large
amounts of traffic. The Scout Service has a small

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

administrative office on-planet, which sometimes
hosts members of the Exploration branch who come
to study the local flora and fauna. The shipyard and
port authority are both located at the highport, a
large facility that they share with the Scout Service
way station. In addition to serving the needs of
the Communications Branch, the way station also
includes administrative offices where retired scouts
come to pick up their Type-S scout/couriers. These
ships are rarely given without also assigning a
detached duty mission. There is plenty of work to be
done in the subsector and retired scouts make an
excellent auxiliary work force.
Chant’s low-key government is primarily concerned
with the preservation and maintenance of the world’s
delicate ecological balance but also manages the
Civilian Service Bureau, an agency that provides
services for the world’s nine million inhabitants.

Farhome

Farhome is one of the failing worlds of the rimward
cluster, evidenced by its poor starport quality,
declining population and low Tech Level. This world
was the site of a Solomani Colony that collapsed
during the Long Night and a second colony that
was established in 667. The second go-around
got off to a fair to middling start, exploiting the
untapped resources of both the mainworld and the
system’s two planetoid belts. In more recent times,
poor planning and subsequent financial struggles
have slowly and painfully choked any prospects
for success that the colony might have had. While
some still eke out a decent living in the belts, those
on the mainworld have become destitute. Most have
eventually found a way off of Farhome but some
descendants of the original colonists remain, living
out a bleak and seemingly pointless existence.
If there is a silver lining to Farhome’s dark cloud,
it is its invention of a musical style called altDirge.
It is performed by a live band, usually with three to
five musicians and always includes a bass drum, a
high-pitched horn similar to the Terran suona and
an accordion. A snare drum and acoustic guitar are
usually included to complete the quintet with the
accordion or guitar player at lead vocals. The lyrics
of altDirge songs are about depressing things like the
deaths of loved ones, barren worlds, financial ruin and
unrequited love. The sensation has caught on at the

R

