Port Away and Rorpa Din systems as well. Top bands
tour the interstellar region, making a decent living and
raising awareness of the struggles of their respective
homeworlds. The altDirge band No Prospects is
currently making waves with the political protest song,
‘Take it as it comes’, which draws attention to the fact
that some of their people have turned to piracy out of
desperation. The song rather bluntly blames corrupt
Imperial bureaucrats for their suffering.

Traa

Traa has been mined by belters for thousands of
years and its asteroids have been almost completely
tapped of their precious metals. Most mining
activity now occurs on the other planets and gas
giant moons of the system where prospecting and
extraction is more difficult. Traa is off the beaten
path of the rimward main by one parsec, so its
government has found other ways to make it a
worthwhile destination. Its dozens of hollowed out
asteroids, once home to millions of belters, have
been converted for recreational use and now host
myriad artificial habitats including zoos, spas,
environmental simulations, amusement parks, urban
settings with fine dining and opportunities for social
interaction and ‘pleasure asteroids’, which promise
experiences beyond Travellers’ wildest dreams.
Vacationers from industrial Raami and Skeen are
frequent visitors.

Wrebil was once the site of an extensive psionic
training institute, which was grooming psionic aides
to serve high nobles. Initiates in the programme were
the cream of the crop, selected from thousands of
candidates within the Core. The group trained at
a secure facility known as ‘the Keep’, located on a
high seamount in the world’s northern hemisphere.
When the Psionic Suppressions occurred, the group
resisted dissolution and incarceration, resulting in
a bloody confrontation with a battalion of Imperial
Marine lift infantry troops. Despite being unarmed
and unarmoured, the psionics gave as they received,
using their abilities to take out dozens of marines
during the assault.
In an effort to ingratiate themselves with the locals,
initiates from the Keep were regularly parcelled out
to members of Wrebil’s ruling bureaucracy, where
they made themselves invaluable members of
Wrebilian society. When the marines came down
from the heavens and the Keep was destroyed,
it caused a great deal of unrest and ultimately
resulted in the dissolution of the government. Wrebil
split up into factional governments, some of which
were pro-Imperial and some adamantly against
them. Grievances were settled over time and the
anti-Imperial nations have simply become more
isolationist while the pro-Imperial ones have sought
more involvement from the interstellar community.
Of note, several of the psions at the Keep escaped
the attack aboard a deep sea submarine. The
marines were unable to pursue beyond 100 metres
of depth in their assault craft but did manage to
fire weapons at the submarine and claimed that it
was destroyed. Conspiracy theories abound that
the psions actually escaped and resumed their
roles helping Wrebil to govern its society and that
the balkanised nations of the world are a ruse to
put off the Imperium. There are also rumours that
the master of the Keep, an über-talented psion by
the name of Marak Ilyaman, has been able to use
a unique Awareness talent to maintain his youth,
thereby making him immortal. Allegedly he continues
to lead and teach psions from a secret training
facility, far beneath the water world’s ocean surface.

Chant

The starport is housed in Kala-an-Vodi, Traa’s largest
planetoid. Its high-tech shipyard only manufactures
civilian spacecraft and is known for producing
many custom designs. Its financial success has
garnered the interest of investors including the
megacorporation GSbAG, which has purchased a
minority stake. Imperial authorities have expressed
concern about the shipyard’s willingness to install
all manner of weaponry, stealth coatings and other
typically military features on so-called civilian
starships but has thus far resisted the temptation
to intervene. The economy of the rimward main is
already in a state of deep economic depression and
the Imperium is reluctant to upset the applecart.

Wrebil

191

