years either at Kamsii the ‘pleasure planet’ or another
suitable world in the subsector. In addition, most
Dingtraian societies are members of one traditional
Vilani religion or another with almost no Solomaniinspired faiths among them.
Offworlders often find Dingtraians to be aloof or
perhaps even a bit hostile. With the exception of
Kadushii, all of Dingtra’s high-population worlds
have high Law Levels, showing their preference for
strict, orderly societies. Unfortunately, it also reflects
intolerance towards foreigners. Dingtraians do not
much care for behaviour that strays outside the norm
and Travellers to Dingtra’s high-population worlds
often get into trouble with law enforcement officers.
For this reason, most of these worlds have been
given Amber Zone designations. Dingtraian justice is
harsh and the court system often assigns long prison
sentences for petty infractions. However, Dingtra is
after all a part of the Imperium and usually commutes
sentences provided that foreign diplomats intercede
on an incarcerated Traveller’s behalf. Commuted
sentences are usually accompanied by deportation
and a lifetime expulsion from the system where the
‘crime’ occurred.
Dingtra is defended by the squadrons of the
Imperial Navy’s 274th Fleet, which maintains an alert
if standoffish presence at the navy bases in the
subsector. The Imperial credo is to protect the space
between worlds without interfering in their affairs.
Nowhere is this truer than Dingtra where the navy
maintains a distinctly separate existence from the
locals. While citizens of the subsector do serve in the
navy and other military services, most do so without
distinction from their respective worlds. Imperial service
is neither celebrated nor reviled but merely looked upon
as a necessity for membership in the empire.

Idas

Idas is a full-fledged technologically reinforced police
state that severely limits all aspects of its citizen's
lives. Idasians are never allowed to leave the system
and interstellar travel is limited to high-ranking
members of the Ruling Council and the Sovereign
himself, and then only with an oversized force of
security officers. Council members are fitted with
augments that enable them to communicate with one
another using an encrypted neural network. Most
communication is done sub-vocally, thereby enabling
them to speak with each other in a virtually telepathic
fashion. All conversations are recorded and analysed
by data algorithms designed to spot rebellious thinking
and nip such behaviour in the bud wherever it may
exist. The augments are also fitted with brainwave
suppressors that can be used by the Sovereign and
high-ranking members of the secret police to render
an individual unconscious or – in extreme cases –
given a painful and fatal cerebral aneurism.
The Sovereign of Idas serves as the world’s
executive authority and is allegedly selected
under the advisement of the Ruling Council. In
fact, the role is solely appointed by the previous
Sovereign – usually a male blood relative – but
the ruse is propped up to convey the illusion that
the Council has more power than it actually does.
Upon selection, the Sovereign is ritually blinded
and has his eyes replaced with cybernetic ones that
supposedly enable him to see into the souls of his
subjects. In fact, these glowing red eyes are the
least sophisticated augments given to the dictator.
After the ritual, the Sovereign disappears from public
view for a few months, during which time a full array
of TL14–15 augments are surgically implanted at
a world with the desired technology on hand. With
the sophisticated and highly specialised augments,
he can indeed detect a great deal about those
with whom he communicates, including whether or
not they are telling the truth and whether they are
favourably disposed towards the Sovereign.

Dingtra

There is a flipside to that Imperial creed; systems
under the Imperium’s protection must abide by its
laws and must not move to restrict free trade. Dingtra
appears to have a problem with the latter. So little
commerce moves into and out of the subsector that
the Imperium has become wary. Ultimately it is the
responsibility of the subsector nobility to ensure that
the worlds under their purview are adhering to the
rules but even they have run into trouble penetrating
the monolithic Dingtraian culture. Sharurshid
maintains an ominous presence in Dingtra and may
well be propping up a ‘shadow monopoly’ in which
the megacorporation and its shell companies hold
all the cards. Imperial inspectors sent to investigate

the situation have all too frequently ‘run afoul of the
law’ and subsequently found themselves serving
time in a gulag. The Imperium is attempting to
resolve the problem without making too heavy a
play. The age of orbital bombardment and planetary
‘cleansings’ has long passed and officials hope to find
a diplomatic solution. Recently they have begun to
make inroads with some of the less-populated worlds
of the subsector, specifically those which have less
authoritarian governments.

195

