T

Dingtra

Idas’ roughly one billion citizens are equipped with
internal devices at birth that track their whereabouts
and record all of their experiences into a sprawling
data substrate. These recordings are rarely accessed
by law enforcement but the mere knowledge that they
exist keeps most Idasians in fearful compliance. In
addition, Idas likes to apply authoritarianism with a
personal touch. All of its arcologies are panopticons,
circular structures whose buildings are observable
by a central listening and viewing post. With the
technology available, the Idasian security apparatchik
could perform all surveillance unobtrusively but, for
whatever the reason, they prefer the populace to be
acutely aware that they are being watched. Besides
the secret police and intrusive surveillance technology,
the people are controlled by the twin pillars of the Free
Party of Idas and the Indenturate, a quasi-religious
authority that harbours the belief that achieving
perfection in one’s works shall set them free in the
afterlife. This afterlife is not spiritual but technological.
After a life of labour, the sum total of one’s recorded
experiences are assembled as a unique identity
and set free in a virtual world where none of the
trappings of authoritarianism exist. Idasians spend
copious amounts of their spare time editing out the
experiences they would just as soon forget from their
personal data troves, in preparation for the blissful
experience that awaits them in a digital afterlife.

196

While TL12 is formidable, there is certainly higher
technology to be had in the Imperium. The security
apparatus on Idas is acutely aware of this fact
and spends a great deal of its time worrying about
‘infections’ by higher technology. They are desperately
afraid of what might happen should rebellious
members of society – rare as those may be – obtain
technology that enables them to thwart Idasian
safeguards and expose the lies that prop up the
ruling authorities. There are rumours of an insurgent
organisation known simply as ‘The Anarchy’ that
seeks to do just that, although no actual proof of their
existence has been found.
While the world is not interdicted, Travellers are
advised to restrict themselves to the highport,
downport and the rather pedestrian startown. Delving
into Idasian society is not recommended as visitors
have a bad habit of disappearing without ever being
seen or heard from again.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Kamsii

Kamsii is a pleasure planet, with virtually all of its land
masses and much of its seas devoted to providing
entertainment for millions of visitors. Amusement
parks, nature preserves, zoos, ocean cruises,
immersive virtual reality experiences and just about
any other entertainment that one can imagine is
available on Kamsii.
Kamsii is the subsector capital and the Ducal Offices
are there but the Duchess of Dingtra actually spends
little time on the world. The ruling family of Kamsii are
descendants of Solomani who conquered the world
during the Interstellar Wars. A patriarch or matriarch
of the family is assigned the nominal role of count or
countess but rarely do they use this appellation. Along
with their apparent distaste for the terminology of
noble lineage, the family controls Kamsii as if it were
a city state within Imperial confines. They maintain
their own sublight planetary navy, which patrols close
orbit all the way out to the 100-diameter limit. There
is both an Imperial Navy base and scout way station
but neither has a presence on Kamsii itself. Both are
located in orbital space stations and on the surfaces
of other worlds in the system.
Kamsii is also the site of sizeable Hiver, Droyne
and most recently K’kree enclaves. While these are
ostensibly tourist attractions of a sort, the government
is careful to nurture relationships with each of them in
an effort to prevent their inhabitants from feeling like
exhibits in a zoo.

Ushba Sind

During the Interstellar Wars, Ushba Sind fell under
the jurisdiction of a Terran Navy sublieutenant
who designated the world as a wildlife refuge for
numerous animal species found throughout Dingtra.
He noticed that Vilani exploitation had resulted in
mass extinctions on many of its worlds and was
determined to reverse the damage. His successors
never managed to replenish the worlds of Dingtra
with species that had gone extinct but they did
convert Ushba Sind into a ‘Noah’s Ark’ of sorts,
with thousands of alien animals transplanted to its
surface. Ushba Sind itself had no native life forms of
its own but thousands of years of soil treatment and
the application of other terraforming techniques had
transformed the world into a viable home for a broad
range of plants and animals.

R

