CADION

Cadion has multiple clusters of worlds that are
divided by gaps of two or three parsecs, preventing
the bulk of them from forming cohesive political and
commercial communities. There are three or four
distinct clusters of stars – depending on how they are
grouped – and one outlier in the Night system. Imperial
astrocartographers refer to subsectors like Cadion as
‘assistive’, meaning that their disparate clusters seem
less associated with one another and more with those
of outlying subsectors. While gaps of three parsecs
are by no means insurmountable, most trading ships
and freighters have jump ratings of 1 or 2. However,
communications are carried by the x-boat network,
which is standardised at jump-4, so the worlds of
Cadion do remain in communication with one another.
The cluster to spinward-coreward, which includes the
Cadion system itself, contains the rimward spur of the
Sylean Main. Not all traders who ply the main come all
the way to Cadion before turning back to Capital but
those who do have the option of continuing onward to
the densely populated Shardi Cluster in neighbouring
Dagudashaag. Naasirka has recently made Reel a
regional R&D and manufacturing hub, which has made
the long journey to the spur worthwhile for merchants
who want to obtain the megacorporation’s popular hightech products.
The spinward-rimward (lower left) corner of Cadion also
contains worlds that are linked to the Shardi Cluster but
these are not considered part of the Sylean Main due to
the fact that to reach them by jump-1 transit, one must
first delve into Dagudashaag. This cluster also contains
Reference, the central repository of Imperial knowledge
and administrative headquarters of the IISS. Reference
is heavily defended by Imperial Navy and Scout Service
spacecraft but civilian traffic is strictly limited there for
security reasons.
Located in the central chasm of Cadion, the Lia and
Double Star Clusters are seldom visited by traders
and only one system among them, L’rotuu, has
planetoid belts and is therefore the only system to
attract belters. Sharurshid has sponsored subsidised
merchant routes in each cluster to explore their
economic potential and has even installed a deep
space refuelling depot in the empty space between
Double Star, Lia and Patu for those merchants who

198

want to explore both regions. The jury is still out
on whether there are enough Credits to be made
on these underserved worlds. The majority of them
are in rapid technological and population decline
and resemble frontier colonies more than they do
worlds of the Core. In addition, some have developed
decidedly isolationist cultures and would rather be
left alone. Nevertheless, these worlds are of strategic
importance to the Imperium whose 210th Fleet is
charged with defending the subsector. Stellar chasms
pose a security concern and the squadrons of the
fleet monitor the empty space between worlds as best
they can. The navy bases at Double Star and Markun
share the bulk of this duty. The remainder of Cadion’s
squadrons are based on its periphery and are tasked
with defending its holdings from the troubled worlds of
neighbouring sectors. In the galactic scheme of things,
it was not all that long ago that the Imperium dealt
with the Ilelish Revolt. The navy bases in this region
were a major jumping-off point for the successful
quashing of that separatist movement. The Emperor is
leery of festering unrest in the other sectors and has
instructed the navy to keep a watchful eye on events
as they transpire.
By and large, the worlds of Cadion make up a freewheeling, laissez-faire society. In comparison with other
subsectors, there are few authoritarian governments
present and most of its worlds have low Law Levels.
Unlike most of Core, Cadion has the look and feel of
the Imperial frontier.

Brygella

Brygella has a complex oceanic biosphere that
has been left largely undisturbed. The planet is
almost completely covered with water and island
land masses consume only three percent of its
surface area. It is believed that Vilani nobles
used the world, then called Lash, as an aquatic
game-hunting preserve. The world was devoid of
sophont populations during the Long Night and was
only resettled during the early years of the Third
Imperium. There is only one permanent habitation
on the planet and that is at the prestigious Brygella
School of Oceanography, a post-graduate university
whose campus is entirely on artificial floating islands
and underwater structures built on its seamounts.

