Second Reference

Reference contains the largest body of information and artefacts ever collected by Humaniti. The planet,
and more specifically the data it contains, is of immense strategic importance to the Imperium. For that
reason, the Imperium allegedly keeps a ‘Second Reference’ at some undisclosed location. Many x-boats
and long-range scout/couriers are said to carry secure, encrypted updates to Second Reference frequently
in order to keep the two facilities as synchronised as possible.
Information travels at the speed of jump and the same can be said for the preservation of Reference’s data
stores. There is no other practical way to ensure this happens other than for starships to physically carry
it there. That said, the location of this alleged Second Reference is a mystery. There are many rumours
about its location, none of which have been confirmed by physical evidence. No starships have been
directly tracked making the journey to Second Reference but then the scouts would do everything in their
power to maintain its confidentiality. Some believe that a complete copy of Reference’s data is on Zikhi, the
system at the exact opposite corner of the Core. Others believe it is far away on a remote system in the
Empty Quarter. There are those who think it is not in the Imperium at all but in fact on an unincorporated
world in Star’s End, perhaps Enola or Miramon.
The idea of a backup with a nearly complete copy of the data is entirely conceivable but there is simply
no way to replicate the artefacts and samples at Reference. However, some surmise that Second
Reference is the storage site for unusual samples and the most dangerous artefacts, perhaps Ancients
devices that could pose a threat to Imperial security, should they fall into the wrong hands. All of this is
idle speculation, of course.
Whatever the case may be, the Intelligence Branch of the Scout Service is tight-lipped about it and only
those with the highest levels of authority and clearance know anything about Second Reference… that is, if
it even exists.

Cadion
207

