CH'NAAR

Ch’naar is dominated by its capital, Aursis, which
owns four other worlds in the subsector. Aursis
has owned Okefir and Vala since they were initially
colonised in the year 57 but more recently acquired
Diam Kani and Siniir Sa. Aursis allegedly has its
sights set on Anshar as well. Duchess daMae of
Aursis claims that Aursis’ presence on so many
worlds is necessary to prevent a full-blown Chanestin
insurgency from the Dunea subsector. Dubious
Imperial intelligence officials and the Duchess’ rivals
in the Moot have expressed concern that she is
overstepping her boundaries and attempting to carve
out an empire within the empire. Despite the Duchess’
ravenous appetite for worlds, the Imperium has thus
far resisted the urge to rein her in. The Sector Fleet
has made some noise about sending squadrons to
Zagi Uun to monitor the situation more closely but no
moves have been made as yet.
Critics in the media and at court wonder if the whole
thing is not just an elaborate bit of political theatre.
The threat of a Chanestin insurgency is real and the
presence of a bold and boisterous counterweight
in the region might actually serve the Imperium
well. While the Imperial Navy Admiralty has often
expressed concern about Aursis’ aggression towards
its neighbours, it could be a case of ‘they doth protest
too much’. Aursis’ strong presence in Ch’naar might
block the Chanestin from further expansion. It might
well be that the Imperium is wilfully letting Aursis flex
its muscles in the region so that the Imperial Navy
does not have to.
As for the worlds conquered by Aursis, they have
been – to this point, anyway – mostly low-population
systems with only minor holdings. Despite dramatic
shows of force when taking each star system,
Aursisian troops actually encountered little to no
resistance when acquiring Diam Kani and Siniir Sa.
Furthermore, Aursis has not instituted martial law on
any of the captured worlds; if anything, laws have
become less restrictive under the Aursisian aegis.

212

The one exception is Okefir, whose gradual rise in
technology and increasing population has spurred an
independence movement. Aursisian occupiers have
made it quite clear to the Okefiri that they have no
intention of granting the world self-rule. An Okefiri
resistance movement has begun to form and they
like their chances against their oppressors. While
Aursis has a significant technological advantage, the
harsh desert environment of Okefir is not something
Aursisian troops are used to and a war of attrition
could come out in Okefir’s favour.
Headquartered at Aursis, the 150th Fleet consists of
six squadrons and is heavily used as an instrument of
force and intimidation throughout the subsector. The
bulk of the squadrons maintain an ominous presence
in the Ekhuurme and Dimanaam systems, where the
Duchess claims she is keeping a watchful eye on the
Chanestin worlds to trailing for the sake of Imperial
security. Ekhuurme has a large Chanestin minority
whom the Aursisians gleefully oppress. The flagship
of the 150th is a hardy prototype of the new Voroshilefclass battleship which the shipyards at Dimanaam
hope to make a staple of the Sector Fleet. The lesswell-appointed 150th Colonial Fleet is tasked with
patrolling Ch’naar’s spinward flank.
Tensions run high in Ch’naar, with nine systems
designated as Amber Zones. Many of these worlds
have been spurred into action to help prevent
Chanestin incursions and their Amber Zone
classifications reflect a heightened level of anxiety. For
their part, Chanestin populations profess not to know
what all the fuss is about. They have made it clear that
they see themselves as a distinct culture, worthy of
all the rights and protections afforded to the Lancians,
Luriani and Antareans in other sectors. They have
not violated Imperial laws in any way, shape or
form and see no reason for the Imperium to fear
them. Furthermore, they claim to have no territorial
aspirations beyond those of their original 25 worlds.

