T

Diam Kani

Diam Kani is the site of a failed terraforming experiment
in which genetically engineered ‘airplants’ – a collection
of oxygen-producing purplish-black plants, fungi and
lichen – were strategically spread over the desert world’s
surface in an effort to thicken its atmosphere. The original
expedition to the world failed to find aquifers or other
sources of liquid water and funding dried up before
they could import the needed hydrogen and nitrogen to
make things work. Nevertheless, the resilient genetically
engineered airplants have grown in abundance, extracting
nitrogen and oxygen from the soil and distributing it
into Diam Kani’s otherwise inhospitable atmosphere.
Unfortunately, the planet’s lack of a magnetic field, small
size and proximity to its orange main sequence primary
means oxygen generated by the airplants is bled off at
a slightly slower rate than it is generated. In time, the
ravenous airplants will consume most of the oxygen from
the soil and leave the world an even more dried-out husk
than they found it.

Ch'naar

When Aursis acquired Diam Kani, it was assumed they
would find a way to jumpstart the terraforming project
and get things back on track. However, this was far from
their intentions. Aursis has converted Diam Kani into a
‘war world’, a place where squabbling systems in Ch’naar
come to air out their grievances with one another so they
do not have to wreak havoc on their own environments.
Apparently, the idea originated from a chance encounter
with a high-ranking Aslan member of the Imperial Guard.
The Aslan told stories about the ruling clans back in the
Hierate, who designated certain inhospitable worlds
as neutral locations where conflicting clans could go to
conduct forms of ritual warfare. This enabled them to
resolve disputes without wrecking valuable landholds on
their own worlds.
So far, Diam Kani has only been the site of a few small
battles, all of which were staged to resolve disputes
between bickering nobles. The wreckage of each
conflagration has been left behind on the planet like so
much rubbish. Subsequent battles have used the burnedout chassis of tanks and APCs from previous conflicts
as cover and field fortifications. Salvagers are allowed to
scour dormant battlefields at their leisure but the hostile
environment of the planet prevents all but the most wellgeared crews from doing so.
While the war world concept has yet to fully catch on,
megacorporation Instellarms and other weapons dealers
have set up shop at Diam Kani to sell their wares. Diam
Kani’s atmosphere is very thin but rich in oxygen, which
means that demonstrations of mid-tech conventional

216

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

arms produce impressive pyrotechnical displays. The
ring of territory extending from approximately 100–
250km from the starport is used for all sorts of weapon
demonstrations, many of which result in big sales for
the corporation. In fact, sales have been so brisk that
Instellarms invested in the starport, upgrading it from
Class C to Class B, in order to accommodate the rush of
customers to the planet.
Meanwhile, critics have come to question the feasibility
of the war world concept. In the Core, most disputes are
resolved diplomatically. While armed conflicts certainly
occur from time-to-time, the Core is supposed to
represent the peak of human achievement. Designating
worlds like Diam Kani as places to kill one another might
have a deleterious effect on civilisation. The battles that
have been held on the world so far could definitely have
been resolved with less loss of life and property damage.
In fact, some question whether these wars would have
occurred at all if a venue such as Diam Kani did not exist.

Gidekis

Count Rolfo Menderis of Gidekis is originally from Night
in the Cadion subsector where he made his riches
producing advanced quantum microprocessors for
the Imperial Navy. The Menderis Corporation remains
a powerful, multi-subsector operation and competes
well against megacorporations in the same industries.
Menderis was awarded a noble patent for his efforts and
assigned the Gidekis, Gandar and Shueshlar systems
as his county. During the reign of the previous subsector
duke, Menderis had virtual free reign to administer the
worlds under his purview. He designed and appointed
each of their respective governments, traded freely
with whomever he wished and influenced the current
governmental structure of Khea, a key world of the
old Chanestin Kingdom. Under the current subsector
duchess, he finds himself considerably more restrained.
Gidekisian government is based on a high degree
of specialisation with each of its widespread oceanic
provinces focused on a unique industry. The largest
‘continent’ in the Gide (the word used for the planet’s
worldwide ocean) is Lemuria, which consists of a series
of cities built on seamounts and floating grav platforms.
Lemuria is the primary processing centre for the Gidekis
fishing industry which, like most Gidekisian operations,
is highly automated. Other continents are focused on the
fishing operations themselves, aquaculture and deep-sea
mining. The high technology at Gidekis’ disposal means
that little labour is performed by human hands but instead
done remotely using specialised robots. These robots are
designed on Gidekis and manufactured on Gandar.

R

