Menderis’ operations have recently come under scrutiny
by Aursisian authorities who have threatened to impose
a subsector-wide embargo on trade with the Chanestin
worlds. However, evidence suggests that Menderis has
not reduced shipments to them at all. While there are
no Imperial laws that prevent trade with the Chanestin,
Menderis must tread a fine line. He does billions of
Credits of business with Aursis and does not want to
jeopardise his contracts with the subsector capital.
Aursisian government agents and auditors are trying
to catch Menderis in the act of smuggling goods to
prohibited worlds in Dunea subsector but have so far
been unable to prove that anything is amiss. Despite the
lack of a ‘smoking gun’, Aursis is pulling out all the stops
to drive Gidekis into submission. Aursisian diplomats are
attempting to curry favour with the government of Zimmel,
which owns Gandar. Aursis wants Zimmel to force Gandar
to expel Menderis’ manufacturing operations on the world
if they continue to flout the embargo. Menderis provides
a lot of jobs on Gandar and Zimmel is hesitant to rock
the boat; however, the Duchess of Aursis has promised
that the Emperor will assign baronies to the Anarchs of
Zimmel should they comply. This tangled web of corporate
and political influence has yet to be resolved. Meanwhile,
Menderis is content to keep all of his operations running
smoothly until he finds himself forced to do otherwise.

Hiilev

Hiilev is home to a human Minor Race of sorts but not
one seeded there by the Ancients. The Hiidamo are
descended from Vilani colonists who came to the world
during the early settlement of Ukan (the Vilani name for
the Core sector). It seems likely that they were genetically
engineered to survive the conditions of the planet. They
settled the lowlands of Hiilev’s richest river valley and
developed dark and leathery skin that protects them from
exposure to the harsh rays of the system’s primary star.
The Hiidamo have large, overdeveloped lungs that can
extract oxygen from the planet’s very thin atmosphere and
filter out its sulphur-dioxide taint.

The Geonee Alakavala Corporation from the Massilia
sector has been buying up property and industrial capital
on Krain and Mirror, two worlds with suitable environments
for the high-gravity-oriented human Minor Race. The
Geonee are eager to get a foothold in the Core market
and an overemphasis on military matters in Ch’naar has
them believing they can make a splash by focusing on
commercial pursuits by rapidly increasing the Tech Levels
of both worlds and making them viable players in the
heavy machinery and automation industries. The Geonee,
who tend to govern with a light touch, believe their values
will be embraced by the locals of these two worlds, each
of which has a remarkably free society.
As a species, the Geonee are highly focused on
ownership. They very much want to know who owns what
and, furthermore, what they can obtain for themselves.
This cultural trait has been a bit jarring for some of the
long-time residents of these worlds. While both worlds are
barely populated, and there is plenty of land to be had,
the aggressive approach of the Geonee has made their
arrival feel a bit more like an invasion than a business
venture. For their part, the Geonee have expressed that
they merely want to know where the lines are drawn so
they do not offend the locals. They also want to know
what is up for grabs so they can establish ownership of
the things they believe they will need to be successful.
The Geonee are common in Imperial space and may be
found on a number of worlds. They usually segregate
themselves into ethnic communities but are quite
gregarious and branch out into society by taking roles
in engineering and business. One of the more eccentric
aspects of the Geonee is that they believe they are
the descendants of the Ancients. While others find this
dubious, the Geonee seem to be quite assured of their
heritage. Knowing that Geonee often seek out worlds
with Ancients sites has caused a bit of a stir in the region.
Neither Krain nor Mirror are known to have been graced
by the Ancients but the mere presence of the Geonee has
drawn archaeologists and speculators to these worlds for
a fresh look.
Mirror is a highly unsettled world with a great deal of
hydrogen sulphide in its oceans, deposited there by its
many active volcanos. The world is so named because of
the reflective properties of its oceans. This visual oddity
may have increased speculation of an Ancients presence,
even if it is merely a chemical phenomenon. In fact, the
Geonee are mostly interested in this world because
it reminds them of Shiwonee, their highly unstable
homeworld. Shiwonee is troubled by extensive climate
change, which precipitates the nomadic movement of the
Geonee people.

Ch'naar

The Hiidamo have a xenophobic culture and did not
take well to the arrival of Imperial colonists in 420. The
newcomers were more interested in gaining access to
the world’s rich sea life than encroaching on Hiidamo
territory but conflicts between the two groups occurred
nonetheless. The colonists had superior technology and
some factions among them wanted to commit genocide
on the Hiidamo. A colonial militia began to systematically
search for and destroy Hiidamo settlements, killing every
man, woman and child in several of them. Fortunately,
cooler heads prevailed before the natives could be
scoured from the planet and the colonists left the
remainder alone. The two have learned to live separately
in the intervening centuries.

Krain and Mirror

217

