DUNEA

Dunea was once home to the Chanestin Kingdom,
an interstellar empire conquered by the Imperium
in the year 2. The Chanestin worlds were pacified
and some occupied for a time before being turned
over to self-rule. Even after over 1,100 years of
Imperial citizenship, the Chanestin people have
clung to their cultural heritage and have found it
difficult to assimilate. All eight of the Amber Zones
in the subsector have been designated due to the
activity of Chanestin separatists. A great deal of
unrest has sprung up on these worlds and there is a
burgeoning movement to create a Chanestin cultural
zone similar to that of the Sylean Worlds. Cultural
zones have been afforded to human Minor Races
and cultural groups that have found it difficult to fully
accept Imperial hegemony. While the Emperor is
considering the possibility, he does not want to set
a bad precedent. The Imperium wants to emphasise
inclusion, not division. If too many groups are granted
cultural zones, the Imperium could become a fractious
entity, which is the last thing the Emperor wants.
The Emperor must tread a fine line with the Chanestin
Crisis. The Imperium has had to put down revolts
before and they are unpleasant affairs to say the
least. The Chanestins have little in the way of
resources to stage a bona fide revolt and everyone
knows this. With ultra-high-tech surveillance gear and
highly trained counterinsurgency operatives at their
disposal, the Imperium has the upper hand. Without
the ability to actually make things uncomfortable for
the Imperium, it would appear that the Chanestins
do not have much of a leg to stand on. However,
this is the Core and appearances are important.
The Emperor certainly does not want to see a multiworld insurgency occur in his home sector, even one
hopelessly doomed to fail. The Moot is divided on the
subject. While some are determined that the Imperium
must draw a line in the sand and deny the Chanestin
request, others believe it to be more expedient to
simply give them what they want so that the Core can
move on to more pressing matters.
Meanwhile, the Imperium has done what it can to
keep the peace. None of the Chanestin worlds are
under Imperial military rule but the armed forces do
have a presence on most of the systems that they
claim. The Imperial Navy 132nd Fleet, headquartered
at Uundizi, keeps a watchful eye on the Chanestin

222

worlds and has been quick to respond when there
are riots, mass insurrections or terrorist acts. In
addition to its role as a link on the x-boat routes, the
Scout Service way station at Ginnekar also maintains
a small fleet of jump-6 couriers to keep Capital
abreast of current events should things go awry.
The coreward portion of Dunea has a moderate-sized
stellar gap, which makes for a somewhat challenging
passage to the rest of the Core. The worlds in and
around this gap have formed strong commercial
ties with one another, anchored by the efforts of the
Uundizi, Zimmel and Bussirka starports. This trio
would very much like to incorporate the Chanestin
worlds into what could become a vibrant subsector
economy. While the Chanestin buy goods from
coreward Dunea, many of them levy ‘phantom taxes’
on visiting traders. It is against Imperial law to hinder
free trade but making things inconvenient by charging
exorbitant prices for routine services and fuel and
finding other ways to gum up the works are workable
methods to hamper the flow of commerce. The
Chanestin are playing with fire here since free trade
is the law of the Imperium. Should tensions escalate,
the Imperial Navy could apply a form of gunship
diplomacy by taking over starport operations on the
Chanestin worlds and forcing them to play fair. The
Imperium sincerely hopes it does not come to that.

Keshi

Keshi is the former capital of the Chanestin Kingdom,
an empire of 25 star systems that lasted for nearly
1,300 years. The Chanestin Kingdom rebuffed
both the Sylean Federation and its successor
state, the Third Imperium, and ultimately engaged
in a 100-year war with both empires. After losing
the war, Keshi became the cultural and spiritual
centre of the Chanestin people and took on an
unexpected role: antiquities collector. Fearing
that their culture would be erased from the pages
of history, the disenfranchised Chanestin nobility
retrieved paintings, sculptures, manuscripts, archived
holovideos and just about any other art forms and
records that they could get their hands on from the
former worlds of the kingdom. Entire bridges, towers,
monuments and other architectural pieces were
disassembled and transported to Keshi where they
have been reconstructed for the public to marvel at.

