Over the centuries, Keshi amassed such an
impressive collection of Chanestin Kingdom
memorabilia that the world became a destination
for millions upon millions of pilgrims from the other
culturally Chanestin worlds. An ancestor and cultural
fetish worshipping religion has taken the place of the
monarchy that once ruled most of Dunea. The ruling
authority on Keshi is a quasi-religious bureaucracy
known as the Curators. This shadowy group
conceals their identities from the public but professes
to redistribute the profits of their enterprises to
the people. While Keshians are given a universal
basic income, no one except the secretive Curator
administration truly knows how much revenue is
brought in or how equitably it is distributed.
Keshi has partnered with industrial Khea to capitalise
on the pilgrimage and tourism industry, which brings
in a large portion of Keshi’s total wealth. Part of
the appeal of Keshi to the Chanestin people is the
world’s unwillingness to accept Imperial authority.
Keshi and Khea advocate the establishment of a
Chanestin Worlds cultural zone and have actively
stirred up insurgent groups on many of the kingdom’s
former worlds to help support their cause.

Those with Chanestin heritage are not the only
interested parties. Keshi and other Chanestin worlds
are a big tourist draw for foreigners as well. The
unique art, architecture and culture appeals to many
people from elsewhere in the Core and millions of
them make pilgrimages to the region to see the
world’s wonders.

Khii Isis

This world has been called many things. During the
era of the First Imperium, it was known as Gikhii
Iis, roughly translated as ‘desolation’ or ‘dry death’,
which makes sense considering that its original Vilani
colony died out during the Long Night. The world was
resettled during the Chanestin era, who maintained
the tradition of giving it a Vilani name but subtly
changed it to Khii Isis, meaning ‘dry home’. There is
a movement to change the world’s name yet again
to Ekal, which comes from the old Terran language
of Hindi and means ‘solo’. The majority of the world’s
current inhabitants are the descendants of Terran
immigrants who came from the Indian subcontinent.

Dunea
225

