T

Zimmel has no government or law to speak of as
Salo is built upon principles they call egalitarian
individualist anarchy. It is libertarian in economic
spirit but culturally driven toward fair and equitable
distribution of wealth. While the two concepts are
seemingly opposed, Salo makes it work by using
technology to ensure that the lower classes are
always provided for. The system seems to work even
if it causes some grousing among the merchant class
who sometimes let slip feelings that it is they who
provide the wealth and therefore they who should
reap all benefits. Since business is booming, there
is plenty of wealth to go around and such grumbling
is mostly swept under the rug. However, should Salo
see a slowdown at some point, there is concern that
the entire system could break down.

THE SALO LOGO

Dunea

The logo of Salo merchant lines is one small
orange star and two large stars, one red and
one orange, representing the stars of Zimmel,
Gandar and Shaaram. Orange bars connect the
stars to each other. Salo is a multi-subsector
line with its foot in both Dunea and Ch’naar.
While its logo is intended to express the
corporation’s desire to unite the two subsectors,
there is little evidence that either side embraces
the notion. Dunea is largely a refuge for the
Chanestin worlds and Ch’naar is under the
direction of the decidedly anti-Chanestin
Aursisians. The two sides often scoff at the
blind idealism that the logo represents but Salo
has stuck with it thus far.

228

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

To ensure the continued viability of the experiment,
Salo has linked their operation to the vibrant
economy of Ch’naar. A few decades ago, Salo
purchased Gandar, the largest moon of the
neighbouring system’s only gas giant. Salo upgraded
Gandar’s starport, invested in a fleet of automated
gas giant-skimming drones and converted the
port into a refuelling station for traders who make
their way to and from Ch’naar. While the move has
significantly enhanced their fortunes, Gandarians
have not entirely taken to the egalitarian anarchy
concept and broken ranks with their parent world.
Gandar has more of a freewheeling frontier culture
and without some degree of law and order, social
structure tends to break down.

R

