SAREGON

Saregon is the Core’s most populated subsector with
286 billion sophonts living on 39 worlds. It has nine highpopulation worlds, four of which are industrial. Saregon
is one of the most powerful subsectors in the Core,
second only to Kaskii when it comes to industrial might.
With its rich and growing economy, vibrant jump-1 main
and powerful subsector navy, Saregon is in many ways
the Imperial dream. In others, it is a dystopian nightmare.
Saregon has more than its share of police states and
technologically enforced authoritarian regimes. There
are eight worlds with Law Levels A+, all of which use and
abuse surveillance technology to watch their people’s
every move. The draconian states on Dishadshii, Igla,
Milpa and Dinad take the concept to another level;
citizens are fitted with tracking devices at birth and
forcibly implanted with wafer jacks, neural comms and
neural links during adolescence. These devices are used
to brainwash them and ensure absolute compliance with
the dictates of those in power.
For its part, the world of Saregon is attempting to
show these dictators there is another way. Saregonian
technologists have leveraged the power of artificial
intelligence to create what amounts to a post-scarcity
anarchist utopia. The Imperial Navy has gotten into the
act as well on worlds like Arla and Iimdii where military
rule is giving way to low Law Level societies. After the
chaotic collapse of an authoritarian government on Khuir,
the Scout Service and Imperial Army restored order and
are experimenting with a minimalist legal system that
has yielded good results. Unfortunately, these attempts
to lead by example have not swayed most dictators
in the subsector, many of whom contend that without
extreme laws, their societies would descend into chaos.

Another overriding theme of Saregon is the ongoing
battle between megacorporation Tukera Lines and
sector-wide corporation Achenaar Antilles. Tukera,
which has major holdings in Delphi, has made inroads
in the lower third of the subsector by using their
industrial might to undercut Achenaar Antilles. The
two lines have each accused the other of sabotage,
commerce raiding and other skulduggery. Both have
hired mercenary companies to secure their starships
and industrial facilities. While some of the more
outlandish claims made by the two corporations
have been dismissed by the subsector duke, he has
instructed the Imperial Navy to keep a close eye on
events to ensure they do not boil over into a full-blown
mercantile conflict.
The Imperial Navy’s 273rd Fleet has its hands full in
Saregon, patrolling the Core’s borders, defending
trade routes, quelling problems on its nine Amber Zone
worlds, ensuring corporate conflicts do not escalate
into something more and keeping a watchful eye on
the Chanestin worlds on Saregon’s spinward flank.
The 273rd has 10 full squadrons at its disposal and has
appointed highly regarded officers from the Admiralty
to command them. Saregon has an aggressive,
individualistic and rather unruly subsector culture.
While the Imperium is careful not to play too heavy a
hand, they have deployed the squadrons of the 273rd
Colonial Fleet in an advisory role to many planetary
navies. They must tread a fine line so as not to intrude
upon the affairs of individual star systems but the
general feeling is that more uniformity might mitigate
some of the chaos.

229

