T

Dinenruum

Dinenruum is a Trojan planet, perched in the L4
Lagrange point of the system’s orange subgiant primary
and the larger of its two red dwarf companions. The
rarity of this phenomenon makes Dinenruum a natural
wonder of Charted Space.
A few decades ago, the planet was the site of a
large and growing colony and ground had just been
broken on Research Station Delta when catastrophe
struck. The tertiary red dwarf star in the system has
an eccentric orbit that brings it close to the other two
stars every few centuries. It erupted with a two-day
long series of stellar flares that lashed the colony with
radiation. Hundreds of thousands were killed instantly
and many thousands more died a slow and horrific
death from absorbing such a high dose of radiation.
The research station, a more modern structure with
proper radiation shielding, was nearly complete but
soon abandoned without the infrastructure to support it.

Saregon

The remaining population are mostly transient
corporate workers on Dinenruum to extract mineral
resources. The system’s two planetoid belts are
reasonably rich and have a decently sized belter
community. The University of Ashga is attempting to
raise funds to restore the research station so that local
studies of the rare Trojan planet may resume.

236

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Igla

Igla is governed by the Church of Preservation,
which emphasises that all resources are finite and
restrictions on the use of technology are necessary
for all of its citizens. The beliefs of the church stem
from the Long Night when the collapse of the Rule
of Man and subsequent disintegration of interstellar
trade resulted in the degradation of technological
equipment, which had severe effects for those living in
hostile environments, such as that of Igla. The church
preaches that objects of technology are a gift from God
and worthy of worship in their own right. Adherents to
the religion – including all native-born Iglans by church
decree – thank God for the continued operation of their
technological devices with daily prayers.
Iglan society has multiple castes, each of which has
access to different levels of technology. The lowest
caste is only given access to facilities and equipment
of approximately TL7. The church uses surveillance
technology to monitor how ‘devout’ its citizens are and
grants access to ever-greater levels of technology to
those who show sufficient levels of ‘enlightenment’
with TL14 restricted to the priesthood and the Order
of Fusion, the armed and armoured guardians of Igla.
The order pledges fealty to the Imperial Army and are
known for their discipline, selflessness and overzealous
maintenance practices. Their frugality, effectiveness
and efficient use of technology has made them a model

R

