for other Imperial Army units in the subsector. Cadre
battalions are sent to other systems to teach others
how to achieve similar results. The order uses these
missions to evangelise the teachings of the church and
recruit parishioners with mixed results. Authoritarian
systems, those with Law Level A+, have been receptive
to their teachings. However, most high Law Level
systems have their own stringent rules and regulations
and sometimes bristle at the notion that their armies
are being taught new ways of thinking. This can cause
friction but cadres are usually allowed to continue with
their instruction. After all, most military budgets are
constrained and proven methods to reduce expenses
must always be given a long, hard look.

Saregon

The Anarque of Saregon is a powerful computer
network that manages the lives of the planet’s 10 billion
inhabitants. All of their basic needs are provided by
automated and sustainable systems so the motivation
to work is limited. In order to provide for everyone,
the Anarque needs a constant influx of raw materials
and natural resources. With a habitable mainworld,
four gas giants, dozens of gas giant moons and a rich
planetoid belt, Saregon might be the ideal world for just
such an experiment. The Imperium is highly suspicious
of unconstrained artificial intelligence, which has put
the Saregonians under the watchful eye of Imperial
authorities but Saregonian culture is open and allows
the Imperium to probe and analyse the system as much
as they like.

The world’s opportune location on a sizable jump1 main has made it rich from trade, the bounties of
which are shared among its populace. Wealth is not
shared equally but according to need and relatively
few Saregonians argue with the outcome. Those who

Population is strictly controlled by the Anarque but
this is done subtly so as not to convey the feeling that
one lacks self-determination. Should one province or
another exceed its quota of citizens, sonic inhibitors
in the arcologies impede further conception until the
numbers balance out again. Critics of these techniques
have called them ‘soft eugenics’ but most Saregonians
just see it as the Anarque being practical. Neighbouring
systems such as Sinad, Ganad, Igla and Shakiiga have
runaway population crises that result in an endless
cycle of overcrowding and overdevelopment, and all of
which require authoritarian governments to keep them
from slipping into chaos. Saregon has averted such
problems by turning over the decision making to an
advanced computer system without overtly curtailing
individual freedoms.

Shimaraak

Shimaraak is the homeworld of the Ssienjhiovla,
a species of mollusc-like omnivorous sophonts,
which had developed to approximately TL3 when
discovered by the Ziru Sirka thousands of years ago.
The Ssienjhiovla evolved from a strictly aquatic to an
amphibious species at some point in their evolutionary
development. Shimaraak has a remarkably old and
stable yellow main sequence star, so catastrophic
stellar flares are an unlikely culprit to have brought
about the mutation. In addition to the Ssienjhiovla, the
world has a bountiful and varied ecosphere.
Shimaraak is a large, high-gravity world with a thin,
low atmosphere. The world has few mountain ranges
of note but its shallow oceans are rich in highgrade metals and rare-earth minerals. The industrial
worlds of Saregon are eager to get their hands on
these untapped resources but the Scout Service
has acquired a proclamation from the Emperor
that denies them access. The scouts would like to
interdict the system but the highly social Ssienjhiovla
have requested that they refrain from such extreme
measures. The Ssienjhiovla have acquired and
adapted to Imperial technology and very much want to
continue being participating citizens of the Imperium.
Slapping an Amber or Red Zone on the world would
segregate them from the interstellar community, which
is the last thing the Ssienjhiovla want. While there is
no scout base on Shimaraak, the scouts visit often and
vigilantly watch over the world.

Saregon

The Anarque subdivides the world’s inhabitants
according to needs, so provincial borders vary from
day-to-day even if the location of residents does not.
Most Saregonians do not engage in work as most
understand the concept. However, the system makes
sure to keep the citizens busy with one task or another,
some of which are industrious and some more artistic
or social in nature. All citizens are outfitted with wafer
jacks into which they plug software they need to
perform their assigned tasks. The end result is a culture
that seems to be terribly busy, flitting from place-toplace, engaged in one activity or another but little of
which appears to be absolutely necessary. Some have
joked that the Saregonians are on a life-long scavenger
hunt forced upon them by its ruling computer system.

are dissatisfied are encouraged to seek their way
elsewhere and willingly granted exit visas to any of the
other systems in the subsector.

237

