INTRODUCTION
Charted Space is home to hundreds of alien races.
Some have risen from their homeworlds and spread
to the star systems around them, others are either
incapable or content to remain where they are. When
playing an alien race, it is tempting to focus on a couple
of points that make them stand out from humans but
this can result in all aliens seeming one dimensional.
The beauty of playing a member of an alien race is to
dig down into what makes them different and how that
difference affects their interaction with other races.
This book focuses on five alien races.
The Darrians are known to be a pacifistic race who value
excellence in scientific and artistic endeavours. Many
militaristic races have scoffed at this, thinking Darrians
an easy target, or that their outlook makes them
inconsequential on the galactic stage. Nothing could be
further from the truth. The Darrians are heirs to some
of the most advanced technology available in Charted
Space and their advancement continues. For those who
believe they can conquer this race of pacifistic scientists
and artists, the Darrians have a feared weapon capable
of causing a sun to go supernova – giving any aggressor
pause – the Star Trigger.
The Geonee have claimed to be the decedents of
the Ancients and they have the ruins and remnant
technology to support their claim. When first contacted
by the Vilani, they were thought to be a Major Race
until it was discovered they had reverse engineered
their jump drive from a recovered Ancients starship,
causing the retraction of their position and relegating

2

them to become a Minor Race. The Geonee have
struggled to have their achievements recognised by the
greater interstellar community ever since.
Dolphins where gifted sophoncy by GenAssist, a
genetic engineering corporation founded on Solomani
principles with the intent of providing the humans of
Terra companions to colonise the galaxy with. The
project was a success and Dolphins have become
recognised as a Minor Race in their own right. Their
communities are based on principles of total freedom
and equality but they owe a debt of honour to the
humans who gave them reasoned thought.
The Orca are another race granted sophoncy by
GenAssist but this time grudgingly. The project to
raise them up to a Minor Race suffered a serious
setback, which nearly ended the programme if not for
the generosity of the people of Sufren. Matriarchal
and aloof, the Orca are far less friendly than their
Dolphin cousins and do not share their outlook. Instead
they hold principles of matriarchal veneration and
mindfulness as the core of their civilisation.
The Bwaps evolved amid the swamps of an alien world,
their civilisation grew slowly through cooperation and
the universal belief that they all have an individual
and unique place in the universe to fulfil. Their
obsession with minutia and fine detail placed them in
the perfect position to make themselves indispensable
to the bureaucracy of the Ziru Sirka and their close
relationship with the First Imperium allowed them not
only to influence their position within it but gain access
to technology denied other races.

