THE DARRIANS
On the far spinward side of Charted Space, caught
between the Third Imperium and Zhodani Consulate, is
the Darrian Confederation – a polity that barely expands
across a subsector. Populated mainly by a human
Minor Race known as the Darrians, they seemingly rose
from nowhere. The Darrians achieved their pinnacle
thousands of years ago thanks to Solomani fleeing the
collapse of the Rule of Man who were integrated into
Darrian society and added their diversity to the Darrians,
spurring their achievements, developing technology that
even today is beyond the scope of what is possible by
other interstellar nations. A tragedy befell the Darrians
when they experimented with one of their greatest
inventions – the Star Trigger. Destabilising their own
sun, the Darrians caused an electromagnetic pulse to be
ejected, not only wiping out the electronics on their own
world but continuing on to affect nearby stars, plunging
the Confederation into turmoil. This was followed by
a coronal mass ejection that boiled their oceans and
superheated their atmosphere. This ecological and
technological disaster plunged the Darrians into a prespaceflight level of technology.
The collapse of the Confederation followed, isolating
Darrian colonies and forcing them to prosper or fail
without assistance. Gradually the Darrians recovered,
recontacted lost colonies and re-established their
Confederation. With time and dedication, the Darrians
have slowly reclaimed much of their technology but are
still unable to grasp the technological heights achieved
before the fall.

PHYSIOLOGY
The Darrians descend from human stock relocated to
Daryen over 300,000 years ago by the Ancients. The
new world the transplants found themselves on was of
low gravity but otherwise hospitable to human life. Initially
free from the pathogens and diseases of their new world,
they developed new ones from the bacterium and viruses
within their own bodies. The combination of lighter gravity,
arid environment and increased level of ozone led to
unique adaptations not found in other humans.
The reduced gravity of Daryen led to the development
of a taller and slighter build, with an equal reduction
in strength. Freed from the shackles of restricting
gravity, the physiology adapted by ‘stretching’ the

4

body, making them much lither. This stretching also
gave somewhat sharper features and an exotic look
that has been described as almost elfin. Reduced air
pressure caused a slight elongation and tapering of
the ears to improve audio capacity.
Most pure-blood Darrians grow to a height of 2.10–2.30
metres tall, while those of mixed blood tend to be a little
shorter. Males average 78 kilograms in weight while
females average 71 kilograms, somewhat lighter than
an average human of similar height.
For most of their history, Darrians lived in harmony with
their native ecologies, taking great pleasure in observing
nature and maintaining a pleasurable alertness of their
surroundings. This has led to slightly sharper eyesight
and hearing than other humans. The Darrians have
a greater tendency towards music and mathematics,
perhaps due to the thicker and larger number of
connections between the hemispheres of their brains.
This has also resulted in almost 20% of all Darrians
being ambidextrous, with the remaining 80% almost
equally divided between left and right handedness.
Daryen has a large percentage of ozone in its thin
atmosphere, more so at higher altitudes, leading to
Darrians developing a resistance to ozone poisoning.
Later research revealed that the resistance originated
with a retroviral RNA subsumed into the Darrians' own
DNA. This discovery led to a vaccine being developed
for the Solomani people among them.
Darrians are not very tolerant of dense atmospheres,
feeling much more comfortable in standard and light
atmospheres. This intolerance is due to Darrians
becoming partially adapted to low pressure atmosphere,
when crossing the high attitude mountain passes of their
homeworld, and because many of their colonies have
thin or very thin atmospheres because of low gravity.
Darrians require specialised breathing equipment to
function in anything above 1.1 standard atmospheres.
An interesting adaption with no clear cause is the
widening of the pelvis in both male and female Darrian.
Their legs also extend straight down from their hips,
not like the slightly knock-kneed arrangement of other
humans. Darrian footprints are parallel, with the toes
pointed neither in or out. This gives them a graceful

