gait but they have some difficulty balancing on narrow
surfaces. The wider pelvis has also led to significantly
fewer difficulties in childbirth and allows for a longer
gestation period and slightly more developed babies
with greater brain development.
Darrians do not possess melanin to protect them from
ultraviolet radiation. Instead, they have a chemical called
protremelanin, which absorbs UV radiation without
tanning, giving them a golden skin tone and much greater
protection from the ultraviolet spectrum. Their skin also
has a glowing quality that others refer to as their ‘inner
light’. Stressed or unhealthy Darrians lose this glow
and their complexion becomes a greyish-yellow. To
complement their skin tone, Darrian hair ranges from
white to platinum-blonde and exhibits the same slight
glowing nature. The introduction of Solomani genetics has
given rise to a somewhat ruddier appearance amongst
Darrians of mixed heritage but an individual will either
have melanin or protremelanin in their skin, never both.
Darrians are unable to store subcutaneous fat, hence
metabolising everything they eat to be used for energy
or internal heat. They have a variable appetite based
on their environmental requirements. If too many
calories are consumed, they are just expelled as waste
product. Although an autonomous process, this has
led other humans to be somewhat envious of Darrians,
who never have a need to diet.
A by-product of their variable appetite is a resistance
to cold and frostbite – a Darrian with plenty of food can
survive perfectly well in climates other humans would
find far too cold. They also resist diseases somewhat
by entering a short feverish coma that burns up most
human bacterial and viral infections.

LIFESPAN

Darrians have a gestation period of 11 months,
giving the baby a head start with increased brain
development. Linguistic ability begins moulding in the
womb and motor skills shortly after birth. Most can
walk, run and start imitating speech at three months.

The Darrians

Darrian physiology is adapted to an arid environment.
They perspire very little, tending to go through long periods
of inactivity when their body temperature is too hot. Their
pigment, high surface to mass ratio and autonomous
metabolic control generally allows them to remain cool
without perspiring, unless undergoing exercise.

Despite this early development, Darrians are considered
children until they are 18 years old when they reach
majority but are not considered mature adults until 22 when
they complete their advanced or professional education.

5

