T

Darrians are considered to be in their prime from the
ages of 22 to 40, after which they begin a very slow
decline of physical prowess.
Due to their resistance to oxidising agents, Darrians
in warm climes can often live to 100 years or more
without medical treatment. Darrians forced to live in
very cold or high gravity environments tend to live
shorter lives, dying at the age of approximately 60, due
to increased cardio-pulmonary stress. Anagathics can
extend this. Elderly Darrians tend to be physically able
but increasingly fragile due to osteoporosis.

DIET

Like many humans, Darrians are omnivores, able to
enjoy a wide range of fruit, vegetables and meat in
their diet. They originally ate the fruit produced by the
Orchard Trees provided by the Ancients, supplemented
with meat hunted from native animals. As civilisation
grew, the practice of animal husbandry developed in
preference to hunting.
Despite their fundamental respect for life, Darrians
understand that predation is natural and therefore
continue to raise livestock and consume animal protein.
They ensure that animals raised for food are treated
well and have comfortable lives, foreswearing any
unnecessary cruelty in slaughter.

SOCIETY

The Darrians

While certainly not a monoculture across the entire
Darrian Confederation, society is based on the teaching
of the ancient Taledh school of thought. Darrian social
codes are a series of laws that define civility, tolerance,
law and punishment. Each colony follows the general
code but subcultures have differing interpretations.

6

As a pacifistic society, Darrians are viewed with contempt
by more militaristic races. They prefer to settle disputes
and conflicts via negotiation or clever ruse but there is
more to Darrian pacifism than meets the eye. Darrian
society is based on the wellbeing of the community rather
than gratification of the self, with a strong emphasis on
scientific and artistic excellence, stringent self-control,
acceptance of others and stoic persistence.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Darrian culture is also influenced by member races
of the Confederation. Citizens are treated equally
regardless of race or origin. The breakdown of the
collected world’s populace is 75% pure strain Darrian,
12% mixed strain Darrian, 8% Aslan, 3% pure strain
Solomani and 2% other races. Since their arrival on the
Darrian homeworld, the Solomani have been absorbed
into the culture but in return they introduced novel
concepts such as personal freedom and ambition. The
Aslan, with their more alien society, continue to follow
Aslan traditions but have been slowly and voluntarily
adopting Darrian characteristics such as monogamy,
prohibition against unnecessary killing and pursuit
of intellectual rather than militaristic pursuits. NonDarrian Aslan see this as a betrayal of traditional ideals,
considering their brethren to be barbarians and traitors
to the true Aslan way.

FAMILY
Darrian form monogamous marriages of a single
coupling, within which families are raised. Before
marriage, young Darrians are encouraged to try
diverse relationships, both different and same sex,
even polygamous groupings. This allows young
Darrians to experience and experiment with multiple
partners to discover what will make them truly
content in a relationship.
Once married, Darrians are expected to remain faithful
to their partner for the rest of their natural lives. Divorce
is extremely rare and socially unacceptable among
Darrians. Where a relationship does not result in an
enduring and loving relationship, Darrians are expected
to stoically endure, maintaining a stable relationship
for the sake of their children and social reputation.
Self-discipline is another column of Darrian culture
– romantic extramarital affairs, be they emotional or
physical, are disapproved of.
Marriages normally produce an average of two or
three children. Family names are descended from the
paternal line but in return the mother has the right to
give the child it’s birth name.
Children are raised to be respectful of their elders
and the community, to seek knowledge and be openminded to opposing thoughts. Behaviour is re-enforced
through social ostracism – antisocial, non-communal
and selfish acts are punished with exile of the
perpetrator from their peers.

R

