Darrians are considered adolescent when they reach
14. Self-reliance is taught at this age and any antisocial conduct is punished with cessation of societal
benefits, cutting the youth off from food, shelter and
transport until they realise their error and that they
cannot function as a complete individual without
the support of others. Continued misbehaviour
normally ends with exile and occasionally death of the
perpetrator, normally through malnutrition or exposure.
While this is viewed as unnecessarily harsh by citizens
of the Imperium, this method has been in use for
thousands of years and death is rarely the outcome
unless the individual truly desires it. Those who wish
to continue in their selfish anti-social behaviour may
choose to exile to the world of Rorre or elsewhere
beyond the borders of the Confederation.
At 22, a Darrian is legally considered an adult. At this
point they are encouraged to leave home and begin
lives for themselves. Family bonds remain close and
during their declining years parents are normally
cared for by their children, grandchildren or greatgrandchildren, often cycling between them to reduce
unnecessary strain.

COMMUNITY

Darrians have no concept of tribe, clan or nation.
Instead, they think of themselves as a unified world and
even that is second to the identity of the Confederation.
Each member world of the Confederation has its own
minor variations in culture and tradition but this is to be
expected from a polity splintered for a significant amount
of time. Since their return to interstellar travel, the worlds
have knitted together into a surprisingly homogenous
civilisation. No matter who they are, Darrian, Solomani,
Aslan; they are all members of the Confederation and
they are all Darrian.

From an early age, young Darrians are encouraged
to strive for scholastic excellence to achieve their
intellectual potential. This is not restricted to purely
scientific pursuits, extending to artistic and sporting
excellence as well. Sporting and artistic endeavours
are encouraged through apprenticeships or grants to
study under leading luminaries in their fields.
Darrians understand that not everyone can be a leader
in their field. This is addressed by encouraging the study
of multiple disciplines. Those who cross train in multiple
fields are highly regarded, as workplace and social
adaptability are vital. Many Darrian heroes were masters
of multiple fields of study.

PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE

Darrians, like all humans, work and play. Their jobs
however, are necessary for the well-being of their
society and for profit – they provide individuals with the
basic means to pursue life and leisure.
The unusual aspect about Darrians is not their
vocations but their avocations. Darrians enjoy
recreation – leisure is important to their lives. Tourism is
a major industry on most worlds of the Confederation,
and most tourists come from within it.
Idle recreation is not the only leisure that Darrians
partake in. They have a keen fascination and desire
for knowledge, with libraries and computer databases
standard utilities in every community. Darrian education
fosters intellectual curiosity and provides training in
posing logical questions and finding answers. Many
Darrians develop an avocation for research. Each
selects a broad subject or topic that interests them and
will usually spend a lifetime studying that topic.
Darrian research is undertaken on two levels, primary
and secondary. Primary research is undertaken in a
preliminary fashion, exploring and recording theories and
discoveries made by individuals or groups of researchers.
It is recorded, published and peer reviewed as normal.
Secondary research is an analysis of the findings of
primary research. Scientists and casual scholars review
primary research papers to find new discoveries or come
to new conclusions not covered in the original works.

The Darrians

Darrian societies aim to be egalitarian meritocracies,
where everyone is treated equally. Nothing stands
in a citizen’s way of attaining authority except their
own capabilities. Social services and governance
are structured in suitably sized authorities, based on
geography and population of each world. Some operate
on the level of a village, others may be city level, while
others may be continental or planetary. Naturally, some
worlds come closer to this ideal than others but it is
always the goal.

PERSONAL EXCELLENCE

7

