T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

STOICISM
Secondary research is published on central information
systems for others to review and analyse. Most
Darrians have composed at least one analysis of
existing research and published it electronically – if
only as an exercise during their education. Some
secondary researchers follow an area of interest for
the rest of their lives, becoming experts in their fields,
commenting on primary research as it appears and
making correlations within the field.
Every secondary researcher in the Confederation
dreams of making that one momentous discovery by
taking two or more published pieces of primary research
and drawing together wholly unexpected or previously
unsuspected results. Darrians view secondary research
as superior to primary research and a successful
secondary researcher is a highly respected individual.

This stoicism has led the Darrians to developing an
innate foresight, always planning ahead to improve
their likelihood of survival. For millennia, they have
been creating caches of technology and knowledge
against some unforeseen tragedy. Many still exist
hidden away, waiting to be rediscovered.

TOLERANCE

Religion to Darrians is a matter of philosophy, a personal
belief of divinities and the universe. All Darrians are free
to worship or believe in whatever they choose, as long as
it brings harm to no one and causes no inconvenience.
The social functions that a religion is expected to
perform, such as charity work, emotional support, youth
assistance and counselling are all fulfilled by a number of
associations and organisations unaffiliated with religion.

The greatest strength of Darrian society is without doubt
the ability to see issues from multiple points of view. This
is not empathy as such but rather the ability to logically
analyse a situation and extrapolate from this a decision.
Their tolerance is an outcome of their pragmatic way
of thinking, as intolerance invariably leads to conflict,
wasted resources and often violence.

The Darrians

Darrians couple their cold reasoning with an often
disarming sense of good humour. They take great
pleasure in being tolerant and enjoy negotiations, knowing
it more often leads to a constructive and efficient future.

8

In their own eyes, Darrians have suffered a series of
catastrophes, each greater than the last. Despite these
setbacks, they have survived, endured, persevered
and used their ill fortune to only grow stronger. Darrians
have embraced the concept of weathering any calamity.
No matter how bad the situation, how overwhelming the
odds, Darrians accept that fate is often stacked against
them and do not complain, instead always seeking a
way to persevere.

Darrian tolerance is not unlimited however. Certain crimes,
such as cruelty, assault, plagiarism and slander are
punished ruthlessly. Non-Darrians who repeatedly offend,
lie or break contracts are banned from the Confederation.
Tolerant does not equate with stupid and many foreigners
who travel to the Confederation to threaten, coerce or con
citizens find themselves harshly treated.
Due to embracing the virtue of tolerance, Darrians are
often viewed by other races as pacifists, institutionally
unable and unwilling to fight or defend themselves
or their territory. Those who act on this premise will
quickly discover how erroneous that is. Threats from
neighbouring civilisations are initially addressed with
negotiation and, if that is unsuccessful, they will attempt
more subtle methods to avoid open warfare. If no other
option remains, Darrians demonstrate a total social
commitment to combat and prove their excellence is not
just limited to intellectual pursuits.

BELIEFS

Most schools of philosophy are based on courtesy,
open mindedness, rationality and respect for
intelligence. Many have a wide following but the
common societal approach of encouraging multiple
and diverse views also prevents them from achieving
political power. Most Darrians tend to make a distinction
between an individuals’ philosophy or religious beliefs
and their political leaning; many philosophical teachers
have large followers who subscribe to their views but
do not form political power blocks.
The introduction of new races into the Confederation
has naturally brought new philosophies and beliefs.
These new ideas are not considered any less valid
than those traditionally Darrian in origin. All are equally
accepted as long as they adhere to freedom from harm
and inconvenience; it is not unusual to find a wide
variety of philosophies and faiths in any community,
regardless of size.

R

