GOVERNMENT

While the member worlds of the Darrian Confederacy
have their own governments, they all aspire to be
egalitarian meritocracies. Any citizen, regardless
of race, is capable of holding political office but, by
and large, only the most skilled or knowledgeable
are selected. Thus, a politician voted to the Ministry
of Finance generally has an education founded
on economic theory and practice, a wide body of
publications, years of field work and is regarded as a
leading professor of the field by their peers.
The political organisation of the Confederation uses the
following structure.
Municipal Government: One local officer is elected
for every 1,000 citizens to oversee and represent his
electorate. Local in this sense can be quite abstract, as
the citizens may be residents of a densely packed city
block or spread across a lightly populated continent.
These officers become de facto leaders during nonmilitary catastrophes, if communication or social
structure breaks down.
Planetary Government: Varies according to world.
Confederation Government: A collection of five
bureaucracies, known as the Ministries, ruled by the
Confederation Council.
The government of the Confederation is a loosely
formed bureaucracy. The Confederation bureaucracy is
broken up into five Ministries – The Ministry of Finance,
Trade, Information, Defence and Confederation Appeals.
Unlike many worlds in the Imperium, Darrian bureaucracy
is minimal, employing only a small fraction of the
population. The rationale for Darrian bureaucratic
efficiency is many-fold, but can be summarised as follows.

From birth or acceptance of Darrian citizenship, all personal
records and finances are stored electronically. While each
planetary database ostensibly holds only the detailed
records of its own population, they all share the exact same

The Confederation is a cashless society and
accounts are indelibly linked to a citizen’s biometric
ID – all financial transactions are easily traced by the
authorities and automated programmes run checks
within other records to detect fraudulent activity, such
as welfare, employment and education databases to
ensure no oversights or mistakes are made.
With most administration tasks being fulfilled by citizens
themselves and doublechecked by software, what few
bureaucratic staff remain are usually assigned the role
of aiding politicians to adjudicate problems, revise old
systems or manage work schedules. Most bureaucrats
have no set responsibilities but are assigned to new
ones once a project is completed. Bureaucratic staff are
selected for their versatility, a good grounding in statistics,
administration, data analysis and up to half a dozen other
social, financial and natural sciences. Their task is not
to be a better specialist than the elected politician but to
convey to the politician the effects any policy will have on
other areas of society and the environment.
During its climb back from the disaster of the Maghiz,
the Darrians experimented with a number of different
policies and interstellar structures, due to a series
of egotistical ministers who believed their particular
theories to be superior. Over the centuries, the
Confederation has grown more homogenous and
efficient. With the experience of different paths taken,
more radical politicians never reach a position to be able
to undermine the stability of the system. Despite that,
there is still a wide variety of political and policy opinion
throughout the Confederation. The current structure is
not ossified and rigid – it still changes and adapts to new
circumstances – and any changes are taken in a much
more measured manner than in earlier days.
The Confederation government cannot technically interfere
directly in the running of any member world. However, to
become a member of the Confederation, each system
must agree to a constitution that grants the basic rules
and regulations of Darrian society to the population. All
citizens must uphold these basic statutes but, if desired, the
planetary government may impose directives in addition
to the constitution, as long as they do not create conflicts.
Likewise, municipal governments may impose further
regulations specific to the local community.

The Darrians

As a part of their upbringing and high standards of
living, Darrians are inherently honest. They do not try
to manipulate taxes or take advantage of the welfare
system, knowing that to do so will undermine the system
and there is little for them to gain. Most administrative
tasks are based around self-declaration via centralised
computer systems, each very easy to understand due
to simplified, global regulations. Few staff members are
required to interact with the populace in general.

structure and design. Crosschecking data on a citizen
from another planet is a formality, merely requiring a delay
of however long it takes for the next data update to arrive
from that world. Citizens who anticipate a need to perform
bureaucratic business offworld usually request copies of
their records to be sent ahead before leaving.

9

