MINISTRY OF FINANCE
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for both the
collection of taxes and assignment of the annual budget
from collected monies. This task is made simpler due to
the readily available banking records of both individuals
and businesses. Taxes are automatically garnished
from wages or business transactions. Additional
revenue is gained from taxation of cargo both imported
into and exported from the Confederation, as are noncitizens visiting the worlds whether they are conducting
business or merely tourists.
The number of taxes in the Confederation are few but
applied to all. A sliding scale adjusts taxation rates to
ensure those who earn more are taxed at a greater
rate than those who earn less, ensuring no great
hardship placed on the poorest. Anyone working in
the Confederation, citizen and non-citizen alike, are
required by law to be paid into a Darrian bank account
where money can be traced. Many non-Darrian
megacorporations sometimes pay their employees a
second wage specifically sent into the Confederation,
otherwise top executives would have their locally
disproportionate wages severely taxed.
The Ministry also sets the minimum wage for different
careers. Wages are weighted in terms of value towards
society, personal danger and distastefulness of the
work; sanitation engineers and military personnel have
some of the highest pay rates in the Confederation.
As a symbol of faith and loyalty to the Darrian people,
politicians and bureaucrats are paid a salary equal to
the average wage on their homeworld.

The Ministry of Trade is responsible for the flow of
interstellar commerce between member worlds and
the regulation of goods both entering and exiting the
Confederation, also monitoring the numbers and having
control over interstellar Travellers. They record all data
concerning trade volume and publish statistics for
business to use for analysis.
The secondary function of the Ministry of Trade is the
maintenance of transport standards, starport infrastructure,
and ensuring product quality, achieved by a combination of
legislation and random inspections. In addition, the bureau
employs customs officers who ensure all cargo entering
or leaving each system is free of illicit materials or Darrian
high technology artefacts. Darrian customs officials are
carefully selected for politeness and good humour to avoid
alienating foreign traders.

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION
The Ministry of Information was created as a
centralised system for recording the results of research
and disseminating information to all who wish to use
it. The Ministry of Information handles such diverse
aspects as research studies, copyright registration,
archival storage of all available information, publication
of important data and statistics, and the establishment
of standards for information transfer. The ministry
maintains the Court of Information to hear complaints of
inaccuracy or plagiarism, including charges of personal
slander and libel as these too are misrepresentations of
objective facts.

MINISTRY OF DEFENCE
The Ministry of Defence controls the security of the
Confederation as a whole. Economically, all Darrian
worlds maintain their own defence forces but the Ministry
of Defence sets minimum military requirements for each
system. The majority of forces are kept on a reserve
status. In the event of an emergency, units are activated
and placed under the command of the Confederation. To
supplement local forces, the Confederation also funds
and trains its own core fleets and armed forces, the
Confederation Navy and the Confederation Guard.
The ministry also controls a third force – the Special
Arm. A small and highly select force, the Special Arm
is responsible for the maintenance and deployment of
the Star Trigger weapon system. Since the Star Trigger
is the major deterrent preventing annexation of the
Confederation by the Zhodani Consulate, the Special
Arm is surrounded by a heavy layer of security and
provided within its own fleet of advanced starships with
which to deploy the weapon to other systems.

The Darrians

Since it is almost impossible to hide credit flow,
Darrians are typically honest and Confederation
taxes are relatively low compared to other polities.
As a general guideline, income tax starts at a base
of 10% of earnings beyond a tax-free allowance.
Planetary taxes are in addition to this, and can
vary according to the inclination of that world’s
government, but rarely exceeds the Confederation
tax level. In addition, Travellers arriving at any
Confederation port are subject to a Cr25 arrival tax.
Hauled cargo is charged a Cr50 per ton transit fee
when delivered to a starport, although speculative
trade is only taxed at half the going rate, making the
Confederation a lucrative market.

MINISTRY OF TRADE

11

