T

MINISTRY OF CONFEDERATION APPEALS
The Ministry of Confederation Appeals is the supreme
arbiter of disputes in the Darrian Confederation. It does
not handle criminal cases, which are heard by the courts
of individual worlds but hears civil cases that have already
been tried and judged when an appeal to the ministry
has been lodged. In addition, the ministry considers
disputes between individual Confederation worlds and
the Confederation government. Even systems whose
militaries are greater than local Confederation forces
comply with adverse rulings without complaint.

CONFEDERATION COUNCIL

Sitting above the five Ministries is the Confederation
Council, composed of one representative for each
system in the Confederation, selected by the
government of each system in whatever manner they
deem appropriate. For example, the representative of
Zamine (a balkanised world) is elected by the leadership
of all nations of Zamine. The representative of Terant
340 (a charismatic dictatorship) is appointed by that
world’s dictator. Since Engrange is currently a colony of
Ilium, it does not get a separate representative. Each
representative is appointed for a term of four years
and may be reappointed any number of times. The
Confederation Council meets in weekly sessions.

The Darrians

The Council is nominally led by a President,
representatives voting one of their cohort to take
the role. The President sits a term of four years and
then another vote is held. Unlike representatives, a
President may not hold office for a contiguous term
but may be voted into the position for other terms.
The President of the Confederation Council acts as
signatory of all legislation passed by the Council and
has the deciding vote on tied matters.

12

The capital of the Confederation is Mire. The
Confederation’s bureaucracies are all based on Mire, as
is the Confederation Council. Each Council member is
accorded an office with supporting staff to handle details
that must be dealt with by major political figures.

LAW

While laws can vary between member worlds of the
Darrian confederation, each is based on a set of decrees
from the 20,000 year old Taledh Codes, which are a guide
to correct living and forbid murder, theft, assault, slander
and cruelty. Legal codes are also merely guidelines for
judges, not rigidly defined laws, and therefore require

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

interpretation in the courts. Generally, Darrian law is
based on the ethics of each case, rather than technical
application of legislative loopholes or prior ruling.
Theoretically, there is no difference between criminal
and civil law. Both harm society and are treated with
equal severity. A plaintiff has two options when seeking
justice – either taking the case to court or having it
settled in arbitration. In practice, most criminal cases
are taken to court, unless the crime is minor.
Arbitration requires a case to be brought before a scholar of
philosophical law. Those involved enter a binding contract
agreeing that they will abide by the decisions of the scholar
regardless of outcome. Each individual may make their
case in front of the scholar, taking no more than one hour to
present what evidence or argument they have. The scholar
then deliberates on the case before making their decision,
deciding on any punishment or fine appropriate. The rulings
of the arbitrator are final and cannot be overturned or
appealed unless the scholar has been found to have acted
in a criminal manner themselves.
Some of the judgments handed down by arbitration
have been rather unusual, making the most popular
scholars those with a sharp wit and sense of humour.
For example, a landlord who brought their tenants to
arbitration over failure to pay rent could have his property
turned over to the tenants for unreasonable rental rates
or for not keeping the property in a reasonable condition.
A famous case involving the Minister of Finance suing
the sanitation department for allowing a blockage in
the sewerage system led to the Minister being ordered
to clear the blockage by hand as it was their family
members who had caused the blockage by disposing of
unsuitable material in their toilets.
Arbitration is the normal form of seeking justice in
Darrian society, due to the speed that judgements can
be made but it cannot impose capital punishments or
exile for serious crimes. For these a full court is required.
Courts require at least three government councillors
– or local officers on smaller worlds – to hear cases
that may result in punishments such as imprisonment,
exile or death. The plaintiff in most court cases is the
government itself, either law enforcement or one of the
Ministries. The court is presided over by a respected
arbitration scholar of many years’ experience, who
first vets the case to ensure it is serious enough to
warrant a full court. Government employed advocates
are randomly selected to serve as either prosecution
or defence. The case is limited to one day in which the
prosecution and defence have equal time to present

R

