their case. The witnessing councillors are given until the
end of the following day to reach a unanimous guilty or
not guilty verdict. If no unanimous decision is reached
in this period, which can occur with large numbers of
witnessing councillors, a vote is held and the majority
opinion carried. The sentence is set by the scholar.
Court cases are held no more than once a week, and
usually more intermittently, often leading to a backlog of
cases to be heard.
Between the length of time waiting for a full court
case or the sometimes ‘random’ nature of arbitration
judgements, there is a third form of dealing with
disputes. Private Settlement is the consensual
agreement between individuals to prevent more serious
penalties of a threatened arbitration or court hearing.
In such cases, an ‘eye for an eye’ methodology is most
commonly used instead of financial reimbursement
or compensation, so the perpetrator of an injustice
experiences what they have inflicted on the plaintiff.
Such settlements are usually presided over by envoys
that remain scrupulously neutral during negotiations.

DARRIAN EXILE
Exile is a form of punishment rarely seen outside the
Confederation and one that fascinates sociologists from
the Imperium. Its use is reserved for ‘criminals’ who
transgress socially accepted codes of conduct but pose
no direct threat of physical harm or potential sabotage.
In general, those who refuse to willingly work within or
contribute towards Darrian society are ejected from the
care of that society.

The duration of exile can vary according to the severity
of the misdemeanour. Minor transgressions last for a
week or a month, enough time to show the exile they
cannot survive long outside of society and it is better
to conform to its modest requirements instead of trying
to cheat or rebel against the system. More serious

Those sentenced to exile are completely outside the
law and have no way to access social services. An
exile can be mistreated with impunity, frequently being
‘encouraged’ to move on by local inhabitants who use
an escalating series of methods ranging from politely
ignoring the individual up to physical assault. Exiles
considered to be a threat to property or life are at risk
of serious injury as they are barred from hospitals and
doctors, and cannot receive medical treatment. Most
exiles are identifiable by their unkept appearance, poor
hygiene and unhealthy greyish cast to their complexion.
Such sentencing seems inhumane to other cultures, even
out of character with Darrian philosophical beliefs, but
becoming exiled is considered an education. Those who
serve their time in exile are welcomed back into society,
their past misdeeds cleared by the purging experience.
During their exile however, no aid or consideration can
be extended to them, for fear of undermining the purpose
of the punishment. Anyone caught aiding an exile is
vulnerable to being charged with a criminal act, although
this does not always prevent a subtle act of kindness now
and then to help an exile survive their term.
Criminals psychologically predisposed to inflicting
further serious crimes involving violence, destruction,
murder or arson, are either incarcerated or executed
instead of being exiled.

SOCIAL SERVICES
Life within the Darrian confederation is extremely good
compared with neighbouring subsectors, due in part
to the communal nature of Darrian culture providing
extensive social services. Darrians support those
willing to contribute to the whole and see the necessity
of providing thorough educational and health services.

EMPLOYMENT

Darrian employment is at almost 98.7%; jobs are
readily available for those with the appropriate
education. The employment rate is carefully maintained
by government grants to set up new businesses or
refurbish infrastructure. The biggest employers in
the Confederation, besides ubiquitous service and
manufacturing industries, are the innumerable research
departments of the Confederation universities.

The Darrians

Such offences can vary wildly and no rigid list exists.
Consistently avoiding taxes, persistent public rudeness
or avoiding an initial term of service in the military if
dropping out of graduate education are all common
causes of suffering exile. The effect of being exiled is
the immediate freezing of the exile’s bank accounts and
computer access, followed by being ignored by those
aware of the sentence. Lacking credit access soon
makes life extremely difficult for an exile, being unable
to buy food, pay rent or use public transport. More are
forced to move into rural areas to live as scavengers
until the sentence expires or they accept a one-way
ticket out of the Confederation entirely.

transgressions such as large-scale theft or industrial
negligence resulting in injury to others can result in a
term of exile lasting years or decades. Only the most
serious of crimes like treason or sedition results in
being exiled for life.

13

