T

WELFARE

While it is true that Darrians embrace the philosophy of
Stoicism, they also understand the need to support those
who suffer misfortune. Unproductive members of society
are not tolerated, however, and those seeking support
during extended unemployment are either assigned
simple labour duties or drafted for another term in the
military. Welfare is generous but has strict limits. Once
exhausted, a citizen must maintain a job for an extended
period of time before being eligible for welfare again.

HEALTH
All citizens in the Confederation have full access to
health care. Since most worlds have advanced medical
technology, Darrians lead full, healthy lives until they
reach advanced old age. Darrians, like many in the
Imperium, have a deep-seated distrust of cybernetic
replacements, mostly from how technology failed after
the Maghiz. Most patients prefer biological replacement
parts cloned from their own tissues, even to the point
of travelling to another system to gain access to
appropriate technology. Anagathics are not sponsored
by the Confederation but governments of less densely
populated worlds often ignore their importation.

EMERGENCY SERVICES
Darrians maintain overly abundant emergency services
for almost every conceivable eventuality. As well as more
traditional fire and ambulance departments, specialised
units cope with biological contamination, radiation spills,
virulent pandemics and flood protection. By mutual
consent, every world has enough shielded subterranean
bunkers to shelter its civilians for six months in the case
of planetary invasion or a repeat of the Maghiz.

The Darrians

POLICE

14

Darrian police departments are somewhat smaller
than their counterparts in the Imperium due to a
significantly lower number of crimes per capita. Police
are universally armed with stunners but rarely expect to
use them. Officers are trained in psychology and act as
on-the-spot councillors, often preventing the need for
legal action to settle disputes or misunderstandings.

EDUCATION

Darrian children begin education at the age of five and
spend the next 13 years developing a broad base of
learning. At 18 they leave school and must undertake
either compulsory military service or continue advanced
education in a university. Just over half choose to continue
learning, leading to specialisation in a specific subject.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE

Darrians like their clothing to be visually pleasant, often
incorporating geometric designs and patterns. Formal
wear is full sleeved tunics or robes with embroidered
cuffs and lapels, belted at the waist and worn over
trousers for men and skirts for women. Embroidered
or bejewelled waistcoats are worn over the tunic for
very formal occasions. Formal footwear is knee-length
boots, decorated with further embroidery or complex
pattern lacing. Casual wear tends towards sleeveless
tunics with loose baggy slacks, allowing a greater
degree of movement. Preferred informal footwear is
sandals with distinctive cut-outs and straps.
Darrians do not tend to wear multiple layers unless it
becomes seriously cold, relying on their metabolism
to keep warm. They prefer lightweight fabrics, taking
pleasure in a range of different textures from soft to silky.
Comfort is preeminent. If forced by local conditions,
hooded over-tunics are worn to prevent hypothermia but
more practical clothing such as coats, gloves and hats
are deemed too constricting and a sign of indolence.
They tend to avoid wearing jewellery except for social
events. Instead, functional communication devices are
incorporated into bracelets, rings or headbands, and
personal computers built into ornate belts or bracers.
Most also wear a wrist or ankle emergency rescue
beacon if travelling away from civilisation. Personal
ornamentation is based more on how Darrians style
their hair with length, beading and colouration being
quite fanciful. Young Darrians usually have bold styles
with plenty of sparkling adornment but as they age
styles take on a more simplistic tone and a plain mullet
or braid can grant an aura of gravitas.
Artists excel in almost every medium from music to
floral arrangement and artwork is a major export of
the Confederation. Aside from exceptional painters,
composers, playwrights and authors, one particular art
form reigns above all others – gravitic art.
The most famous and breath-taking gravitic art is
flame sculpture. Originally developed on Daryen prior
to the Maghiz, technicians stumbled upon the idea
of shaping gas flames with gravitic generators. Their
original objective was to design hyper efficient cutting
torches but somebody took the idea further and used it
to create company logos, constraining the flames into
simple letters, akin to florescent signs. Artisans took
this concept and generated exquisite three-dimensional
images, from busts to full landscapes.

R

