Flame sculptures have many forms. The earliest and
arguably purest form is the static image, where the
shape of the sculpture never changes, just flickering
with internal flames. Most of these are of Darrians in
classical poses or animals.
More complex sculptures add additional elements such
as chemically tinted flames of unusual colours. The
most advanced sculptures are dynamic – changing
form between a series of images related to a common
theme. The most complex morph constantly between
thousands of geometric shapes. The best sculptures can
mesmerise viewers with their ethereal beauty and are
often used by psychiatrists to assist in relaxing patients.
Darrian flame sculptures are categorised according to
the date they were crafted. The rarest are classed as
Early Period, coming from before the Maghiz, and the
Night Period after the Maghiz struck. With the formation
of the Confederation comes the Neoclassical Period
where technique and technology returned to common
use and colour began to be added. The Modern Period
sees the introduction of animation and reaches a new
artistic pinnacle. Examples of Darrian flame sculptures
have even been displayed in the capital of the Imperium.
Due to their rarity, few early sculptures are ever let
out of the Confederation, as they are regarded as

treasures. Modern sculptures are often booby trapped
by their creators, safely self-destructing on opening
their workings to protect the secrets of construction.
Although the technique has been reverse engineered
by a few high-tech worlds, few artists outside the
Confederation appear to have the finesse or talent to
match the individual creativity and skill of the Darrians.
Flame sculptures are only one branch of gravity art, as
the same principle can be used with a range of different
mediums. Darrians have applied the same techniques
to water, narcotic incense smoke and even falling snow
and flower petals.
Darrian architecture has many similarities to their Aslan
brethren. They prefer buildings with an organic feel to
them. While straight walls are more practical, they are
considered soulless and square architecture is avoided
except for the construction of emergency shelters or
technology caches where space must be used efficiently.
Favoured building styles are circular, semi-circular, or oval
shaped rooms and domed roofs, preferences harkening
back to the time Darrians still lived in the Orchard Trees of
their homeworld. Hundreds of thousands of years spent
living in a symbiotic relationship with the trees has placed
an almost instinctive feeling of security when surrounded
by curved walls.

The Darrians
15

