T

Similar to Aslan tradition, Darrian architects and
engineers never construct the same building twice.
Even mass produced, prefabricated housing is
made distinctive and unique with the inclusion of
random variables to each home as it is formed on the
manufacturing line.
Buildings are surrounded by trees and gardens,
landscaped to appear natural rather than designed.
This predilection also extends inside homes and work
environments, with modified plants growing up walls
or across ceilings. When forced to build underground,
subterranean dwellings have captured sunlight channelled
to false windows or skylights and fresh air is wafted into
rooms to complete the illusion of being on the surface.
Darrians dislike building cities with towering skyscrapers
in the middle of an open landscape, preferring to build
within forests and jungles. No building is permitted to
extend more than a few metres above the canopy and
paths connecting buildings weave organically between
the native vegetation. Transport links and infrastructure
are constructed in tunnels below ground so as not to
spoil the natural environment.
Huge skyscrapers and archologies are built in more
precipitous regions, where they can be excavated
out of, or abutted against, natural cliffs or mountains.
External appearance always compliments or mimics
the local surroundings.

The Darrians

RECREATION

16

Most Darrians find significant contentment in their
work but they also like to relax and pursue other
diversions. By far, the most common diversion is
the pursuit of knowledge. Most continue to improve
their education as an informal hobby, reading works
on specialisations that interest them. A few strive to
make breakthroughs in their field or discover new
interdisciplinary relationships by analysing published
research of different fields. The thirst for knowledge
and analysing new interdisciplinary relationships often
colours conversation. Debates are held over scientific
concepts more often than politics.
Travelling is the other major form of entertainment.
Darrians love to travel and absorb new places, people
and experiences. One of the biggest industries within
the Confederation is tourism, both internally and out to
the worlds of the Imperium.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The arts hold a significant place in Darrian recreation.
Theatre and concerts are very popular since people
like to witness the skill of live performances rather
than the technical wizardry of polished, and most likely
artificially tweaked, holovid recordings. Communal
entertainment is another popular activity, such as
singing and storytelling. Improvised theatre with
audience participation is especially enjoyed and group
dances are also favoured.
Art exhibitions are highly appreciated for the skill of the
artist and the emotive nature of some artworks. Darrians
also gain a great deal of personal satisfaction in creating
unique objects, whether clothing, flame sculptures or
breeding unique varieties of plants and flowers.
Sport is somewhat a lesser form of recreation. Team
sports are played for enjoyment, being one of the few
areas of Darrian society where open competitiveness
is actively encouraged, although good humour and
sportsmanlike behaviour is always expected. Personal
activities such as marathon running or mountain
climbing are as much a spiritual as a physical exercise,
allowing the Darrian to maintain fitness while clearing
their mind at the same time.

BUSINESS
Commerce and industry are the lifeblood of the
Darrian Confederacy, linking member worlds
together. Many Darrian corporations are generations
old, having gradually grown and changed to fit the
niche they fill. The conservative nature of Darrian
society makes it difficult for new companies to
become established on the interstellar level, although
many Imperium corporations continue to slowly make
their way into the Darrian markets. Recent instability
and loss of the Entropic Worlds cluster has caused a
number of established firms to fold, opening the field
for newer enterprises.
Corporations are generally owned and run by
families, which normally fill most executive
positions. Where a franchise is extended to a new
Confederation world, a local family is usually sealed
to the owning family by marriage.
No exclusive concessions or monopolies are granted
within the Confederation; all corporations are legally
forced to compete on a level playing field. Those that
reach interstellar status achieve success through talent
and intelligent market analysis – corruption is relatively

R

