unknown within Darrian society, although it is possible
some organisations use external agents to manipulate
markets in their favour.

local vessels during military or civil emergences,
although they must have good reason or risk courtmartial after the event.

The Confederation is small and wedged between
two semi-hostile polities, so there are no Darrian
megacorporations. This situation may change if their
corporations begin to develop TL16 goods.

Planetary navies are financially supported by their
home government, so smaller systems usually have
fewer ships and may have running costs subsidised
by the Confederation. Most colonial warships are
TL13 cruisers and escorts handed down from the
Confederation Navy, which is in the process of
replacing older vessels with updated TL15 craft
imported from the Imperium. System defence boats
are universally TL15 vessels built in the Confederation.
Taken together with their ancient TL16 vessels, the
Darrians arguably have the most advanced navy in the
Spinward Marches. Obsolete colonial assets are taken
in by the Ministry of Defence in exchange for newer
assets, gutted and transformed into vessels for a lightly
armed tender fleet.

THE MILITARY
The Confederation military is divided between
colonial planetary forces and Confederation forces.
Planetary forces are normally stationed on their
world of origin but can be seconded to other planets
to reinforce their strength during war or perform large
scale military exercises.
There are three branches in the Confederation military
– Navy, Guard and Special Arm, all generally better
trained and equipped than planetary forces. Darrians
do not use mercenaries, as they do not trust their
self-restraint or loyalty. The Confederation will accept
aid from the Imperium, coordinating counter-invasion
or espionage missions alongside Imperial Marines
or special forces. The Confederation will also accept
military aid in the form of a covert programme that
exchanges technological information with the Imperium
in exchange for building capital ships too large for the
most advanced Darrian shipyards to construct.

NAVAL ORGANISATION
The navy is organised into two tiers; planetary
and Confederation navies. Planetary navies patrol
local systems with their main responsibilities being
piracy suppression, search and rescue operations,
and system defence. The Confederation Navy is
responsible for exploration, border patrols and strategic
defence of the Confederation as a whole. Although
outnumbered by their planetary cohort, Confederation
officers hold superior rank and are able to commandeer

The Confederation fleet is based around a core of
24 advanced TL16 cruisers of various classes, 12
additional TL15 cruisers, 24 modern TL15 destroyers
and a number of auxiliaries; generally obsolete vessels
refitted as tenders, specialised SDB transporters and
assault landing craft. These squadrons are mainly used
to picket the Sword Worlds and Zhodani borders, and
provide a strategic reserve in case of invasion.
The advanced TL16 cruisers were recovered in 390
from a naval cache dating from before the Maghiz. The
ships boast prototype TL17 weaponry and defences
but are currently irreplaceable. The Confederation
rarely commits these vessels unless an overwhelming
force can be mustered to guarantee their survival.
They form three separate squadrons posted at several
covert locations between stars – one near the Queron
subsector, one near the Sword Worlds and the last held
in reserve at an ultra-secret TL16 naval base.

The Darrians

Darrians are not a war-loving race, nor do they glorify
armed exchanges. Despite their reputation as pacifists,
when offered no other option than to fight Darrians
are coldly rational and focused on survival, making
them implacable foes. They improve their odds by
equipping forces with the best military technology they
can design and the surgical application of the limited
TL16–17 weaponry reserved for such situations. The
Confederation packs a far larger punch than should be
possible for a small polity. If pushed to all-out war, almost
half of the population can be mobilised, ensuring enemy
forces occupying their worlds suffer horrific losses.

Most Darrian systems uphold unusually large
squadrons due to recent hostilities in 1084 when the
Entropic Worlds were annexed by the increasingly
aggressive Sword Worlds. In addition, Darrian
sociological analysts have predicted imminent direct
conflict between the Zhodani Consulate and Imperium.
Therefore, as part of rebuilding their losses from the
Fourth Frontier War, the Confederation is preparing
itself for the outbreak of another conflict. Whilst the
lower population worlds cannot afford significant home
fleets, those bordering the Sword Worlds are bolstered
with elements of the Confederation Navy.

17

