T

Due to the necessity to protect these priceless capital
ships, the main elements of the Confederation fleet
on picket duty are Imperium-constructed cruisers
supported by colonial escorts. These reserves
frequently travel between member worlds to perform
wargames or collect ships assigned to their squadron,
providing crew with valuable tactical experience and
sustaining inter-fleet cohesion.

NAVAL TACTICS

Naval doctrine does not support the use of fighter craft,
believing missiles are more stealthy, manoeuvrable and
capable of being carried in far greater numbers. With
its edge in sensor technology granting greater ECM
capabilities, the Confederation encourages colonial
squadrons to invest in missile-armed SDBs and covert
missile pods to fill the gap.
Darrian marines are treated as a subdivision of the
navy and not considered an independent military arm.
They are used exclusively as ship boarding or counterboarding troops but never for orbital assault, which
is the responsibility of specially trained units of the
Confederation Guard.

GUARD ORGANISATION

The Darrians

The Confederation Guard are a small cadre of highly
trained brigades that specialise in advanced weaponry.
They comprise mobile infantry and armour battalions,
designed to support planetary militias, and jump troop
battalions intended for planetary assault. All equipment is
TL14–15, although rumours abound of a special forces
brigade armed with TL16 weaponry. A disproportionate
number of battalions in the Confederation Guard are
formed of Aslan troops. There are no mixed species
units, due to the specialised equipment that each race
requires, but the two work well alongside each other with
little intra-species tension.

18

The Confederation is rarely engaged in direct warfare,
so the normal function of these troops is to provide
training for militia forces or perform garrison duty on the
few balkanised worlds of the Confederation. The recent
annexation of the Entropic Worlds has caused Guard
units to enter a higher state of readiness.
Each member world also provides its own militia
brigades of light resistance units working in concert
with a small core of standard infantry, air power and
armour. Every citizen, on completing their basic
education, is expected to serve a term in either the
military or advanced studies, resulting in approximately
40% of the adult population possessing basic military

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

skills. While most resistance units are no match for
professional infantry in direct combat, a world with
almost half its population trained in guerrilla tactics
poses significant problems to a potential invader.

GUARD TACTICS

Guard doctrine supports an overall burnt earth strategy,
destroying key choke points such as water, energy and
transport infrastructure, points deliberately positioned
in places that form natural killing zones. Each world
government is responsible for building deep earth
command posts, hidden ordnance dumps and food
caches to supply long term resistance movements or
survive planetary bombardment.
Heavy infantry train in hit and run tactics, preferring to
enact lightning strikes and rolling retreats, but never
remaining in a fixed position. The lighter militia units
use similar tactics but concentrate on ambushes,
guerrilla fighting and civic sabotage. Darrian resistance
units cross-train with low technology weapons and
methods to operate with little chance of detection by a
technologically reliant invader.
When working together, the Guard and militia
complement each other – Confederation troops
retreating through militia ambushes, or vice versa, the
militia deliberately triggering an overstrength response
answered by prepared artillery or armour strikes. The
refusal to dig in and hold territory has proven to be a
great irritation to Sword Worlders during their recent
hard fought conquest of the Entropic Worlds.
Despite the Darrians losing the Entropic Worlds, they were
able to inflict disproportionate losses on Sword Worlds
personnel and munitions. This was carefully orchestrated
by Darrian Psych Warfare officers taking advantage of
the Sword Worlders need for aggressive close combat.
Darrians still maintain, 21 years later, a highly active
resistance movement, intermittently contacted by covert
communication. The ongoing sabotage and terrorism
campaign has severely undermined Sword Worlds morale,
causing the native populace to suffer severe reprisals that
have done nothing but strengthen the resolve of the stoic
Darrians, and driving planets into bottomless credit and
manpower pits – a situation encouraged by the Ministry of
Defence since it diverts resources as the Confederation
plans its counterattack.
Darrian jump troops train intensively with Imperial
Marines and are fully conversant with conventional
planetary assault techniques. Rumours persist that
the Confederation has several brigades of marines
seconded from the Imperium at the Nosea naval base.

R

