SPECIAL ARM ORGANISATION
The Special Arm branch has been expanded beyond its
original responsibility of commanding the Star Trigger. It
has now taken over several other key duties, including
security for other highly classified projects and
providing a counter espionage agency – performing
all sensitive tasks inappropriate for the Confederation
Guard. Their relatively small number of personnel
includes elite special forces units occasionally deployed
on missions outside the Confederation.
As part of their primary responsibility of manning the
Star Trigger strategic defence, the Special Arm controls
a number of non-military TL16 ships on which the
devices are installed.

LANGUAGE

As part of the natural tendency towards unification,
the Darrians have a standard common language.
Prior to the Maghiz, the Darrians had five separate
languages in concurrent use, one from each basin of
their homeworld. Only one, te-zlodh, was specifically
used for colonisation protocols, since it had reached
ascendency as the language that best expressed
scientific and technological concepts. In an ironic stroke
of fate, the majority of Maghiz survivors on Daryen
were in the undersea cities in the Zlodh Basin where
te-zlodh was the primary language.
Modern te-zlodh is known as te-zapet, which translates
as ‘the home language’.
While te-zlodh is spoken and understood on all
Confederation worlds, it has gradually evolved specific
vocabularies and dialects. It is possible to identify
the planet a Darrian is from, and sometimes even the
region, just from their accent or colloquialisms. Since
many technical terminologies and slang are unique,
identifying the profession of the speaker is potentially
quite feasible.

DARRIAN SCRIPT

Technically there are five original Darrian scripts, one
for each of the basins that had independently developed
its own writing system. The eventual supremacy of the
Zlodh priesthood subsumed the peoples of other basins
and forced them to adopt the script used by the scholarly
priests while retaining their own language. The system
uses a syllabary – symbols representing syllables, much
like a shorthand script. The glyphs look like jagged
squiggles, the simple flowing symbols fast to scrive,
assuming they did not have to be carved. This written
form is called yaser te-yulep – ‘the old script’.
When the Solomani arrived and made their presence
known, the Latin alphabet was introduced. Known as the
rome te-yulep, ‘the Roman script’, it was introduced to
ease linguistic difficulties faced by settlers. Although this
alphabet grew in importance due to its ability to represent
phonetic sounds of Solomani technical terminology
unknown in te-zlodh, it did not replace the old script
completely. Currently yaser te-yulep remains in use for
legal documentation, classical literature, poetry and
news feeds, where speed and efficiency of the syllabary
allow for rapid reading. Scientific and educational
documentation remain written in rome te-yulep. On Rorre,
whose population adhere to a pre-Solomani way of life,
the Latin alphabet is legally forbidden.

ASLAN IN THE CONFEDERATION

The second most common race in the Confederation,
the Aslan are a welcome addition. Their timely arrival
prior to the First Frontier War swelled Confederation
ranks and they valiantly travelled deep behind enemy
lines to undertake raiding campaigns. In exchange
for this service, the Darrians gave the Aslan the most
valuable gift possible – land on established colonies.
Over the last five centuries, most Aslan settlements
have slowly integrated into mainstream Darrian society,
adopting greater levels of tolerance, monogamy,
learning te-zlodh and even embracing concepts like
lifelong study. To the Hierate, the Darrian inhatai have
become barbarians. Only the Aslan of Roget have
striven to preserve their traditional ways of duelling and
honour – which is unfortunate for the Confederation,

The Darrians

After the arrival of the Solomani, te-zlodh assimilated a
huge number of words from Galanglic. A large portion
of these were science-based but all sorts of odd
phrases and concepts have muddied the language.
Modern Solomani can often understand the occasional
word in an overheard Darrian conversation. To
encourage social tolerance, the majority of Darrians
learn Galanglic and Trokh (Aslan) as secondary
languages at school. The older Darrian basin
languages are usually reserved for historians or those
specialising as linguists.

Aslan citizens of the Confederation cling to Trokh
among themselves but have increasingly turned to
learning te-zapet in order to communicate clearly
with Darrians, since the human palette cannot
form the guttural sounds of the Aslan tongue. This
reluctantly adopted linguistic flexibility helps greatly
during trade or military manoeuvres, when use of
translators can be a hindrance.

19

