T

CREATING DARRIAN ASLAN TRAVELLERS
A significant proportion of the Darrian population
is Aslan. Those socially integrated into the
Confederation are created as if they were racial
Darrians, using the following modifications if
originating from a world with a gravity of 0.7g
or lower, which the majority of the worlds in the
Confederation are.

CHARACTERISTICS
Darrian Aslan Travellers have the following
modifiers applied to their characteristics: STR+1,
DEX+1, EDU+1

TRAITS
Darrian Aslan Travellers have the same traits as
other Aslan, described in The Trojan Reach or
Aliens of Charted Space Volume 1.

CAREERS

The Darrians

Darrian Aslan may join any career a Darrian can
join, although most still tend to unconsciously follow
gender career preferences. Darrian Aslan Travellers
may acquire the Melee (natural) skill. Aslan from the
more traditional world of Roget may also choose
careers and options given in The Trojan Reach and
Aliens of Charted Space Volume 1.

20

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

as these are the source of the majority of their
Guard and special forces. Despite their continued
cultural segregation, the Aslan of Roget still maintain
an excellent relationship with the Confederation in
recognition of the great gift given them.
Aslan from outside the Confederation always consider
those who have integrated with the Darrians as pathetic
social inferiors and are granted no respect at all.

HUMANITI IN THE CONFEDERATION
There are few non-Darrian humans in the
Confederation, as the original Solomani have long
since been subsumed into the Darrian racial profile.
Most humans who visit the Darrian subsector are either
tourists travelling to see exotic worlds or scholars
wishing to advance their studies by accessing Darrian
libraries and universities.
The Confederation is such a haven for research that
many professional scientists apply to immigrate.
Darrian policy is reluctant to welcome destabilising
personalities or Imperium citizens with questionable
records. Any application for immigration is carefully
scrutinised for cultural compatibility and academic
achievement before a request is sent to Imperial
Security for thorough background vetting. Those who
pass this long drawn-out process are warmly welcomed
as new citizens.
A small number of other humans are granted long term
residence visas, usually employees of non-Darrian
corporations who have offices on Darrian worlds,
interstellar journalists or foreign embassy staff. Those
foreigners suspected of acting as spies or agents are
submitted to light observation and tracking but no effort
is made to stop them from making regular reports to
their government or patron organisation.

R

