DARRIAN HISTORY
Darrians, like other races, have a rich and colourful
history. As a pre-space travel culture they dominated their
world peacefully. They assimilated a refugee population
of approximately 30,000 Solomani and raised their own
culture from TL3 to TL10 in a matter of decades. With
that running start, they further raised society from TL10
to TL16 in the next five centuries – higher than the Third
Imperium has achieved with any dependability.

a single Ancient – identified as Onsorik in Darrian
mythology – supervised their transportation and took a
fatherly disposition towards them, caring for their needs
and protecting them from the dangers of the new world.

The Darrians devised the Star Trigger, a device for
triggering solar flares, but during its first test it destabilised
their own sun and shattered their civilisation, dropping them
back to the Stone Age. It took them nearly 1,000 years to
regain the stars. The tales of Darrian civilisation after the
Star Trigger is one of heroic accomplishment.

THE ORCHARDS

The flares caused by the Star Trigger not only scalded
their planet but destroyed every piece of electronic
equipment in the system. In the ensuing years, the
wavefront from the flares spread towards neighbouring
systems at relativistic speed. As it broke over each
world, it destroyed the delicate electronic mechanisms
that civilisation relied upon. These worlds spent the
next century re-establishing themselves and clawing
their way back to the stars. By -350 they were back,
exploring space within 30 parsecs of their homeworld,
searching for valuable resources, trading with
indigenous races and refining their own science.

DARRIAN ORIGINS

Three hundred thousand years ago, the Ancients
visited Terra, probably several dozen times in the span
of a decade. During the first visits, the Ancient scientists
took samples of Terran life. For reasons still unclear,
they then took sample groups of primitive humans. One
of those samples are now called Darrians.
In all likelihood, the original Darrians were taken to an
Ancients world for testing and evaluation. It is possible
there was some co-mingling of the Darrians with other
samples. Present day genetic tests, regardless of how
advanced they are, provide little confirmation of which
samples were mingled with which. After a time, the
Darrians were taken to a world and deposited there.
Why the Darrian sample was taken from Terra and
transported to a world in the Spinward Marches
remains a mystery. Archaeological evidence suggests

The original population was probably no more than 100
individuals in a tribal setting, presumably very similar to
one from their original Terran home.

The surface of Daryen is divided by long, high mountain
ranges into five basins, each centred on a sea fed by
rivers draining from the surrounding territory. On Daryen,
the basins equate to continents. Within a few years, the
original Darrians outgrew their small camp and Onsorik
created five new communities – one for each basin.
The communities were intended to provide all
essential needs of the humans on Daryen. Each basin
offered a vast housing area and provided them with
shelter, food and warmth.
At the centre of each community was a vast Flame Pit,
each surrounded by extensive Orchard Trees ideally
adapted to human needs. A Flame Pit, approximately
two kilometres in diameter, was a bed of coals fed from
below by natural geothermal action. Natural gas flowed
through it and produced characteristic yellow flames in
the centre, while long vertical seams of coal produced
glowing embers the Darrians used for their home fires.
Natural action slowly pushed up more coals from below
where the Darrians could collect them.
Extending in a radius of approximately 10 kilometres, the
Orchards surrounded the Flame Pit, providing both homes
and food for the Darrians. Individual trees were spaced at
intervals of 10 metres on rays extending from the central
pit. The trees of the Orchards had semi-circular trunks,
encompassing a width of approximately five metres. Inside,
individual families made their homes and, as their numbers
grew, they expanded to new trees, uniquely adapted to
human use. Their fruit grew and ripened on the inside of
the trunk, ready to be picked and eaten, and remaining
unspoiled while still connected to a branch. Picking the fruit
stimulated the tree to grow more. Uninhabited trees bore
little fruit but once a family moved in the tree naturally grew
more. The trunk of the tree protected those living within and
natural waste of the humans provided fertiliser for the trees.

21

