T

Each Orchard numbered about 250,000 trees.
Theoretically, the Orchards could support a population
of a million humans; in practice, over the course of the
next 1,000 years, communities reached populations of
about 100,000 and remained stable at that level.
The five communities, named Boyr, Zlodh, Nyadh, Rimb
and Abh, were established shortly before the Ancients
War began. Being virtually indistinguishable from the
native forest, the Orchards avoided the bombings and
planetary devastation characteristic of the Ancients’
battle tactics. Onsorick was either killed or fled. Left to
their own devices, the primitive Darrians spent the next
several thousand years in idyllic peace in their Orchards.

EARLY DEVELOPMENT

Darrian History

Whether by design or accident, the Orchards provided a
number of stimuli for the early Darrians. The Flame Pits
made fire, which the Darrians used to keep warm and
cook food. The fruit produced by the Orchards tasted
better when cooked. Water was not directly provided by
the trees, so the Darrians had to venture out if the stored
water was exhausted. Collected water provided the
impetus to make vessels to carry it back to their homes.
The Darrians learned to build tools and this led naturally
to the development of irrigation, bringing water directly to
their homes. While fruit from the Orchard Trees provided
all the nourishment that Darrians required, it was boring
fare. They wanted more variety and so learned to hunt
animals that lived within the Orchards. As the native
animals learned to avoid the hunters, Darrians travelled
further afield to hunt but remained securely within the
boundaries of their basins.

22

The fact that the Darrians lived for so long in such a
densely populated area had profound repercussions
on their genetic heritage. The Darrians weeded
out those genetic factors that did not fit with dense
populations. Troublemakers, neurotics, psychotics,
sociopaths and others whose activities were
aggravated by close, continuing proximity to others
were naturally removed the population.

FORCED EXPANSION

Between 80,000 and 100,000 years after the Ancients
War, the Fire Pits began to fail. Flammable gases became
intermittent, belching out noxious fumes and ash instead.
Volcanic tubes below the surface began to cool and the
replenishment of burning coals stopped. The Darrians
knew how to make fire but the Orchard Trees suffered
from the lack of geothermal heat that aided their lifecycle.
The gradual dying off of trees led to terrible population
strain on the Darrians, forcing them to move in an attempt

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

to find new Orchards. None were ever found but the
Darrians’ practicality and basic handcrafts allowed them
to adapt to new environments, learning to create new
shelters and preserve foods throughout the seasons.
The pits at Boyr and Nyadh ultimately burned out
completely. The Rimb Orchard suffered a terrible
plague born from bacterium brought to Daryen by the
humans, which mutated into a deadly pathogen that
swept through the settlement. Knowledge and society
fractured. The sedentary Darrian civilisation abandoned
the Orchards and scattered across the basins.
Over the next 100,000 years the Darrians cycled
through nomadic hunter-gatherer tribes and settled
agriculture and animal herding. Populations swelled
and then died back as the Darrians caused stress
and collapse of the local ecosystems or suffered from
newly mutated diseases. From each setback Darrian
knowledge grew, permitting each recovery to be
achieved at a faster rate.
Approximately 200,000 years after being removed from
Terra, the Darrians finally developed the concepts of
permanent housing and boats, leading to the settling
of rivers and sea coasts. Water transport between
settlements created trade and communication, seeing
a level of cultural exchange not experienced since the
days of the Orchards.

THE RISE OF THE BASINS

The rise of permanent urbanisation, supported by
animal husbandry and rotational crop farming, brought
with it sustainable population growth. Extensive
settlement of available land led to exploration of the
more hostile mountainous regions surrounding each
basin. The mountains rose sharply, forcing pioneers to
settle in the foothills due to the thinning atmosphere,
making life at higher altitudes uncomfortable.
Years passed as the Darrians slowly extended their
penetration into these areas, their bodies adapting
to the thinner air. By the year -20,000 the people of
the Southern Polar Abh Basin discovered a highaltitude pass through the frozen peaks and into the
neighbouring Nyadh, Rimb and Boyr Basins. They
discovered three independent cultures, each radically
different from each other with unique languages,
customs and traditions.
Initial contact was peaceful but fraught with fear and
misunderstanding. Small embassies were followed
by colonial attempts or militaristic expansions. The
original exploratory missions devolved into raids

R

