begetting further raids in reprisal. An age of discovery
and sharing collapsed into an era of pointless wars.
New routes through the mountains were sought, not for
peaceful trade but to wage war.
Hostilities lasted for thousands of years, as conflicts
rose and fell along with petty kingdoms that fuelled
them. Not only soldiers crossed the mountain passes
– traders, philosophers and scholars also made the
crossings during infrequent peaceful periods.
Circa -23,000 in the Boyr Basin, the philosopher-king
Derir Lipit first formally stated the philosophical premise
that shaped Darrian thought ever since – ‘Every living
thing has a right to live according to its own nature.’ In the
Nyadh Basin 1,000 years later, the hermit-philosopher
Yikan Yikan declared the basic commandment – ‘all
living things must be allowed to live their lives’. The
interpretation in Nyadh was an extreme one. Strict
followers refused to take a life, ate only fruit, burned only
wood from dead trees and wore only plant fibres or shorn
wool. Interpretation in the Boyr Basin was more flexible.
Darrians were at the top of the food chain and accepted
as a fact of life that animals needed to be killed for food
to eat but the Boyr philosophy dictated that all creatures,
animals included, be treated humanely. Values advanced
and various philosophies evolved. Eventually the Rimb
law-giver Notan Taledh distilled and combined the two
philosophies into one – ‘Animals live by predation but
humans, because of their intelligence, live by production.
Thus, a human who lives as a predator is living as an
animal and not fulfilling their true nature as a human.
Humans may use the lower animals for labour or for food
but cruelty to them is not allowed. No human may prey
upon another human.’

Taledh also created the first great code of Darrian
laws, which were named in his honour. The Taledh
was comprised of three parts – the definition of crimes,
the definition of punishments and moral guidance for
determining the fitting punishment for each crime.
In defining crimes, Taledh considered any action or
inaction that would or could cause harm to a living
being as a crime. If the action or inaction could have
caused harm but did not, it was an imaginary crime

THE ZLODH EMPIRE

The ice-bound Zlodh Basin, surrounding the northern
polar sea of Daryen, was the last to be opened by
trans-mountain migrations. The first crossings took
place in approximately -16,000 but major interactions
with the equatorial basins of Nayadh, Rimb and Boyr
did not begin until nearly 1,000 years later.
The centre of the polar Zlodh Sea was a frozen cap but
it was the largest ocean on the planet and the edges
remained ice free year-round. Due to the harsher
climate facing them, the inhabitants of the Zlodh
Basin developed technology faster than other basins,
eventually developing advanced sailing techniques
to access their primary food source in the oceans.
Innovative boat designs and crude navigation formed an
extensive maritime trade network, laying the foundations
for the first great Darrian civilisation to develop on the
shores of the Zlodh Sea – the Zlodh Empire.
The Zlodh Empire was founded on a scientific
priesthood, responsible for the magnetic compasses,
astronomic observances and meticulous records that
made complicated marine navigation possible, allowing
merchant voyages to travel vast distances without
getting lost. The priests, through time, extended their
power from the ocean to include authority over the
land. The priesthood never ruled the empire directly but
with their navigators vital to maintaining trade, stood as
the power behind the throne. Emperors rose and fell as
they found or lost favour with the priesthood.
The high priests treated science as real facts, and
not just the works of whimsical gods, but restricted
access to their knowledge from anybody outside
their fraternity. With this rational approach and
inquisitive minds, they were able to unlock the inner
workings of many aspects of the world, resulting in
practical weather prediction, higher mathematics and
application of advanced naval techniques.
The scientific curiosity of the priests funded
expeditions to the other basins, where they not only
gained new knowledge but spread their scientific
accomplishments. Seeing this as an opportunity to
gain influence, the priests sent missionaries to share

Darrian History

The great Taledh taught that rationality was the true
nature of humans. Instinct and raw emotion are lesser,
vestigial parts, which must not be allowed to take control.
Darrian society is based upon this school of thought,
tending to be even-tempered, lucid and difficult to alarm.
They are not, however, self-repressive, instead freely
able to express emotion as long as their expression
does not cause offence or harm.

and not subject to punishment. If an action or inaction
did cause harm to a living being, then it was a crime
subject to judgement and punishment in accordance
to the crime. Furthermore, the punishment of a crime
should be relative to the person who committed the
crime – a richer person should be fined more than a
poorer person, a stronger person made to suffer more
than a weaker person.

23

