T

minor knowledge with the inhabitants of other basins,
increasing their status among them. The missions
gained thousands of followers, allowing the priesthood
to manipulate social beliefs with the intention of
unifying the world under the empire.
Before they could achieve their goal, the priests
belatedly realised they had inadvertently instigated
a technological revolution. Faithful adherents had
taken basic concepts taught them and extrapolated
a plethora of new concepts and ideas. The empiric
scientific approach and associated discoveries spread
like wildfire, undermining the central authority the priests
wished to maintain. Without the centralised structure the
priests had built, the Zlodh Empire gradually fractured
into a number of less authoritarian, petty kingdoms.
By -10,000, compasses, writing, printing, elemental dome
construction and mathematics was available to all. The
influence of the priesthood slowly ebbed and transformed
into philosophical schools scattered across Daryen.
The intense intellectual curiosity of the Darrians led to
thousands of years of studying their ecology and skies,
although they had no great drive to conquer them.
Understanding was far more important than control –
using their knowledge to predict seasonal changes to aid
in farming, understanding the best herbs for medicine
and practicing selective breeding to produce stronger
and more resistant livestock. Whilst, botany, biology,
mathematics and astronomy were valuable subjects to
understand, the social sciences such as ethics, sociology
and psychology continued to lead development.

Darrian History

By -1511, the Darrians had achieved unified peace. They
had achieved a global TL3 and the theoretical aspects of
some of their sciences reached as high as TL8–9.

24

THE COMING OF THE SOLOMANI

Unknown to the Darrians, more than 100 parsecs away
upheaval and war was taking place. The confrontation
between the Ziru Sirka and Terran Confederation
eventually led to the collapse of the First Imperium and
the formation of its successor, the Rule of Man.
The Rule of Man was established in -2204 and
collapsed in -1776. For the next 250 years, anarchy
and chaos ruined interstellar trade and commerce,
brought down old governments and raised new ones.
Where they were able, refugees fled in search of new,
previously untouched worlds.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Solomani merchant corporation Itzin, originally
founded in Turkey on Terra and later based on Dingir
in the Solomani Rim, saw the oncoming collapse of
interstellar trade and its owners decided to emigrate
en masse to a new world and hide from the oncoming
chaos. A select list of employees and their families
were presented with the opportunity to leave with
the company. Preparations were made and a fleet of
transport ships assembled. Supplies, maps, charts and
equipment were crated and stored, ready for departure.
In -1520, the Itzin fleet of 35 transports and 10 armed
escorts departed from Dingir towards the Great Rift. The
fleet travelled through Rule of Man territory to Vland, relying
on written letters of transit when they were honoured and
armed conflict when they were not. After stopping at Vland
in -1516 they ventured into the unknown, unsettled and
unexplored territory of Corridor, Deneb and the Spinward
Marches. In -1513, the fleet stopped temporarily at Sacnoth
and from there mounted a fast survey of the sector. After
finding several potential world sites, the Itzin leaders
selected Daryen as their new home.
The Solomani came clandestinely to Daryen. The world
was first surveyed from orbit, then a base located in
an inaccessible area of the mountains at the junction
of where Rimb, Boyr and Abh met. Once finished, the
settlers relocated to the base and the ships were hidden
in orbit. After a full analysis of the world and its people,
the Solomani where ready to make themselves known.
In -1511, the people of the Itzin fleet appeared in the
Rimb Basin. Their previous research had shown the
Darrians where secular, so instead of appearing as
sky gods, they made their presence known as ordinary
terrestrial voyagers from a far-off land. To most,
the Solomani were just another group of wandering
Darrians, albeit rather short and stocky. It was the
technology the arriving Solomani carried with them,
their knowledge and equipment, that drew the Darrians’
attention. The Solomani freely traded equipment and
knowledge, cementing lasting friendships and fortunes.
Using a combination of subtle dissemination and
honest enthusiasm, the Darrians extracted whole new
technological concepts from their offworld friends,
gaining a broad new base of novel scientific concepts.
Once the Solomani realised how quickly the Darrians
embraced this new knowledge, the Izten leadership
decided to enter into open partnership. The synergy
between the fresh Darrian culture and strongly driven,
more engineering and technology focused Solomani
was explosive. The Darrians quickly adopted wholesale
Solomani theories and engineering, exponentially
accelerating their Tech Level and industrial base.

R

