THE DARRIAN SURGE
Soon after revealing themselves to the Darrians the
Solomani quickly integrated into their society, merging
themselves into the mainstream of Darrian life and
forming interracial marriages, which to everyone’s
surprise produced healthy children, although Darrian
genes proved dominant. Darrians were hired to work for
Solomani companies and, once native manufacturing
capacity began to operate, Solomani became valued
employees of Darrian companies.
The assimilation of the Solomani into Darrian society took
approximately 100 years. The total number of Solomani
arriving at Daryen was no more than 300,000. Their
knowledge, expertise and experience where shared freely,
benefiting both Darrians and Solomani alike. Once the
Darrians mastered Solomani technology, they applied their
own higher mathematical abilities to take them to their
logical conclusions and began to make leaps beyond them.
By -1400 the Solomani of the Itzen fleet had been
completely absorbed into the mainstream of Darrian
society. All major leadership positions by this time were
filled by individuals born on Daryen. At the crest of a
technological renaissance, the decision to mothball the
fleet was rescinded.
Operating from the formerly secret base in the mountains,
the Itzen leadership sent an expedition to the mothballed
ships in orbit. Immediately a problem was discovered –
110 years of inactivity had rendered the ships inoperable.
Moreover, there was no longer a qualified cadre of trained
starship operators; plans for using the stored vessels
proved unworkable. Instead, the Darrians started over
with existing and proven technology and theory, using the
ships in orbit as examples. In 10 years, the Darrians had
their first working design. In three decades, they had a
fleet of scout vessels in operation.

By -1270, Darrian ships had explored the Spinward
Marches to a radius of approximately 20 parsecs. In
this time, the Marches had not yet been settled, so the
region was uninhabited and open to future colonisation.
Initial exploration gradually gave way to in-depth
scientific investigations.

Pure scientific research remained a passion
for Darrians. Whilst exploration teams explored
surrounding systems, scientists were exploring all
aspects of physics, gravitics, electronics, magnetism
and radiation. Aided by their intuitive grasp of higher
mathematics, advances were phenomenal. Their
understanding of the universe grew in leaps and
bounds. The advance of technology was also felt by
the people of Daryen, the very character of Darrian
life changing by increasing industrialisation. For
approximately 100 years, from -1400 to -1300, the
quality of life declined as they become affected by
the growth of industry, resulting in a strong Darrian
movement demanding respect for the individual worker.
For 50 years controversy continued as to how much
consideration an employer owed their employees. By
-1250, society had generally accepted the concept of
a fair wage, reasonable working hours and a need to
monitor the impact of technology on society.
The advance of Darrian civilisation from TL3 to TL10
and beyond was not without complications. A nuclear
power plant accident in the Rimb Basin contaminated
hundreds of square kilometres of cropland. A
second incident within weeks of the first resulted in a
catastrophic meltdown, prompting rapid research into
radioactive clean up techniques. Natural outgrowths of
emerging technologies during the same time were also
felt on Daryen – toxic waste contamination, unforeseen
biological and cultural effects of drugs and chemical
driven changes to the weather system. Many Darrians
came to view the advance of technology as not
necessarily a good thing, leading LoTech and Luddite
groups to form.
These scattered organisations unified under the
leadership of Ghorge Rorre with the intention of
finding a new world that would not be contaminated
with technology. They studied hundreds of scouting
reports and decided on a world several parsecs away.
Formal requests were made to begin an offworld
colony. With no plans to start their own colonies, the
basin governments granted consent, providing that
prospective colonists funded and organised their own
transport. Tens of thousands of Darrians pooled their
resources, raising enough finances to manufacture
several large cargo carriers. Loaded with colonists, the
followers of Rorre left Daryen behind and settled the
new world, which they named in his honour.

Darrian History

Initial Darrian expeditions in -1395 to -1370 concentrated
on worlds within the Darrian Group – Spume, Mire,
Condria, Roget, Ilium, Rorre, Engrange, Edtron, Laberv
and 494-908. Constrained by the jump-1 drives built for
the first series of explorers, Darrian starfarers stayed
within a few parsecs of their homeworld. By the end of
this period the next generation of starships with jump-2
drives and increased fuel reserves were coming off the
construction lines. Certain select ships within this class
were equipped with jump-3 drives for even greater range.

THE GOLDEN AGE

The new colony created a charter that included longterm prohibitions against technology above TL3.
Outside of the starport, where high technology was
required to handle spacecraft, the colonists made the

25

