T

collective decision to remain an agriculturally-based
economy, emphasising preservation of the ecology and
long-term societal stability. The cargo carriers continued
to travel back and forth, bringing new colonists to Rorre
and returning with exotic new produce to help fund their
simple needs.
The lessons of environmental damage were not lost
on those remaining on Daryen. Several new councils
were formed to prevent ecological disaster, resulting
in the building of an orbital infrastructure to remove
hazardous manufacturing into space and utilising
the resources of the solar system. Lacking several
rare minerals, fleets composed of bulk carriers were
loaded with cutting edge mining or refining equipment
and transported to resource rich planets considered
uninhabitable. Even today, signs of the vast Darrian
strip mining operation on Debarre and the rusting
remains of a gas refinery on Talchek can still be found.

COLONIAL EXPANSION

Darrian History

Between -1250 and -1100 the Darrians thoroughly
investigated the 11 worlds of the Darrian Group,
establishing a number of residential research facilities
to study the ecological or mineralogical resources
available on each world. Such installations allowed
the study of the psychological and physiological
effects of long-term habitation on these planets. On
the few worlds with no extant biosphere, experimental
terraforming projects were set in motion.

26

During this time, the colony of Rorre finally established
material independence from Daryen and the
experiences of the colonists, faithfully recorded for
scientists, were used to create guidelines for further
colonisation attempts. Hundreds of pioneers set out
to begin constructing the infrastructure required for
eventually self-sufficient colonies. As each new project
neared completion, hundreds more colonists followed in
transports filled with agricultural and other specialised
equipment. Within a few decades most Darrian worlds
were capable of feeding themselves but still reliant on
Daryen for manufactured goods. The limited number
of transports shuttled back and forth, packed with ever
more colonists and goods.

THE ULTIMATE DISASTER

In the 400 years since the arrival of the Solomani,
Daryen had risen from a TL3 society to TL14. It was
a natural belief among Darrians that they could easily
push to TL22–23 in the next 400 years. Expeditions
continued to visit and explore the hundreds of worlds

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

around the Darrian Group but the primary motivation
was research. Everyone understood that the way
to increase technology was through research and
research was the primary focus of Darrian society.
In the ease of their advancement the Darrians
become complacent, even arrogant in their rise.
Their rush to master new forces and growing
capabilities led them to begin experiments across
a multitude of scientific disciplines, some of
increasingly dubious nature. Darrians began to
investigate antimatter production, bioengineering,
artificial intelligence, psionics and the principles of
matter teleportation. In approximately -1000 the now
unified Daryen government began research into
the life cycle of Tarnis, their rapidly spinning home
star, gathering data. Expeditions to other systems in
the Spinward Marches showed anomalies between
theory and observed measurements of stellar output,
causing scientists to worry about possible instabilities
that might exist within Tarnis.
In -950 and -944 two parallel projects were created
to define the internal mechanisms of Tarnis. The
Abh Project (roughly translated as the Alpha Project)
operated from a base in the asteroid belt close to
Tarnis. The Udh Project (Omega Project) was based
at Zlodh University. The two projects developed
separately. The Abh Project focused on physically
delivering protected probes into the interior of Tarnis
to telemeter data out. These scientists believed that
large quantities of data would provide the answers
that were needed. The Udh Project was more
theoretical in nature. Its scientists used modern
computers and newly discovered meson technology
to remotely analyse the star to find patterns that would
support theories of stellar lifetimes.
In -925, the Abh Project had completed the first of
their heavily protected probes designed to survive
the depths of Tranis while transmitting data for study.
This first probe survived for a total of eight minutes
and reached a depth of almost 18,000 kilometres
before it was incinerated by the interior heat. In -924 a
second probe with improved protection was launched,
reaching an operating depth of 300,000 kilometres
and transmitting data at a prodigious rate. The flow of
data indicated increasing instability in the sun, centred
on the probe. Before the decision could be made to
turn off the device, a subsurface fulmination occurred,
causing the star to blow off immense sheets of stellar
material from its outer layer.

R

