T

The surface temperature rose from 50o to 100oC in
moments as the stratosphere struggled to radiate its
heat. The oceans flash-boiled, sending gigatons of
water vapour into the atmosphere that erupted into
violent storms as vortices formed between hot plasma
in the upper atmosphere and cooler lower air. Over
the course of three days, cascading masses of stellar
material continued to be ejected, striking Daryen
several times more. Everything, save for a minuscule
fraction of life, died.
The only remaining Darrians were those trapped in
a few subterranean installations and the handful of
submerged cities in the deepest parts of the Zlodh
Ocean. The horrified survivors called the extinction
event the Maghiz, the te-zlodh word for Chaos.

Darrian History

The hyper-flares did not stop at Daryen. They
continued on throughout the system, devastating
already functionless orbital manufacturing plants,
drifting spaceships and a few outlying research
outposts. In an unlikely chance of fate, the Abh Project
station in the asteroid belt was located within a vast
nickel-iron planetoid, heavily shielded to prevent stray
signals interfering with sensitive equipment. The base,
but not its surface communications or shuttles, survived
the initial pulse. Nevertheless, the following flares
caught most of the research team as they attempted
repairs on both. The handful of survivors spent four
years cannibalising remaining equipment to juryrig a single gig to take them back to the devastated
nightmare on Daryen.

28

The gamma rays from Tarnis continued outwards
into interstellar space, hitting each Darrian colony
world in turn. Even with forewarning of ‘Pulse Day’,
it was impossible to shield every piece of electronic
equipment from the radiation wave – many colonies
simply lacked the materials or machinery to construct
enough protective cages. As it arrived in each system,
electronic devices were powered down and earthed,
but many still fried. Eventually, after nearly six parsecs,
the wave front dissipated, unable to generate further
EMP effect.

NIGHT TIME

At the time of the Maghiz, colonies were still highly
dependent upon Daryen as a source of knowledge,
supply and interstellar transport. While some possessed a
degree of manufacturing capability, they lacked the ability
to produce microcircuitry, advanced pharmaceuticals
or any number of advanced technologies required for a
fully functional TL16 infrastructure. Nor did the colonies

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

maintain full databases of scientific information, each
world possessing only a small subset of knowledge and
whatever research materials their specialists brought with
them. The idea that the homeworld could be destroyed
had been inconceivable. No one had planned for it.
Over weeks, those transports fortunate enough to be
outsystem when the Maghiz occurred jumped back to
Daryen and discovered the devastation that had been
wrought. Sensor officers scoured the world for signs
of survivors and, by chance, re-established meson
communications with the surviving Zlodh undersea
cities, but realised they could provide no relief for the
stricken citizens. The flash-heated surface of Daryen
was now suffering violent storms and torrential rainfall
from gigatons of condensing water vapour. Without
hydrogen available to refuel them, the transports’ own
survival was in question until the arrival of a vessel
capable of skimming fuel from the system’s gas giants.
Faced with the harsh reality that almost all of Daryen’s
scientific community was annihilated and with no way
to safely descend through the storms, the transports
exchanged navigational data and returned to their homes.
For approximately two decades, Daryen and
its colonies tried to continue with the barest
communication and traded whatever surplus materials
they had available. Rescue and relief missions were
sent back to Daryen, with mixed successes. With
few ships on hand and most useful equipment being
hoarded against eventual failure, it soon became clear
that it was not possible to continue as before.
In -905, all Daryen colonies agreed they would each have
to make their own way. The remaining fleet of ships were
divided equally amongst the colonies – who mothballed
or cannibalised them for parts. All contact between the
Darrian worlds ceased in -860. Between -860 and -275, the
worlds of the Darrian Group devoted their efforts to survival.
Stoicism was born during the hardships of this long night.
Overall, technology reverted back to pre-electronic levels.
Most advanced equipment wore out and was discarded,
the knowledge and infrastructure required to repair them
long forgotten. Others were stored in museums, where
they remained ready to rebuild each colony.

REBUILDING THE CONFEDERATION

By -275, the colony of Mire had recovered to TL10, fully
settling their world and exploiting its resources. A team
of researchers investigated the museum-piece starships
they had and realised they had the technology and
industrial base to build new ones. After constructing a

R

