few jump-1 explorers, Mire re-established contact with
other Darrian colonies, as well as Daryen itself, and
began a new era of interstellar activity.
The rebuilt Darrian Group was led by Mire. Daryen,
was still recovering ecologically so overlooked in the
immediate post-Maghiz recovery. The homeworld
responded slowly to contact and by the time it was
participating fully, the power structure was fully
established with Daryen relegated to the role of
honoured mother world without any real power.

THE SWORD WORLDS

When Darrians returned to space, the first thing
they discovered was that they had neighbours. In
-399 Solomani colonists had arrived at an adjoining
subsector and settled on Gram, approximately seven
parsecs trailing of the Darrian Group.
When the original settlers of Gram arrived in the
Spinward Marches, their cursory survey of the adjacent
systems initially failed to detect the throwback Darrian
civilisations. By the time the Darrians had been
detected, the Sword Worlders – driven by their desire
to create their own independent community – were fully
occupied colonising their own subsector and settling
the available worlds. By -200, the Sacnoth Dominate
had been formed.

THE ZHODANI
The Zhodani had been present in the Spinward
Marches long before any other settlers. They had
established a presence in the Chronor subsector in
approximately -2500 and that region became the
trailing border of the Consulate. It was just a matter
of chance that the Darrian surveys did not reach far
enough coreward to touch the Zhodani border and
no Zhodani expeditions approached Darrian space
between -1521 and -920.
It was not until -187 when a Zhodani exploratory trade
mission encountered the Darrians. Trade with Zhodani
proved to be a lucrative activity for the Darrians. Due
to the Darrian adeptness at analysing and reproducing
prototypes, the Zhodani found it profitable to buy
refined and processed goods from Darrians rather than
undertake refining and processing themselves.
After two decades of trade, the Darrians made a
chance discovery; the Zhodani had been trading with
the Sword Worlds for more than a century. It rapidly
became apparent that the Zhodani had known of the
devastated Darrian worlds but deliberately declined to
lend assistance. Further, evidence mounted that the
Zhodani had established observation posts to maintain
surveillance on the Darrians.
The Darrians took offence, questioning why the
Zhodani had not lent humanitarian aid. After analysis, it
become clear that the Zhodani considered the Darrians
a threat but at first nobody knew exactly why. Further
investigation showed that no outside culture aside from
the Ancients had been able to successfully do what the
Darrians had achieved – trigger a stellar flare.
Darrian-Zhodani relations suffered a major setback,
setting the tone for continued distrust between the two
powers that continues to the present.

Scouts from the Third Imperium eventually voyaged
into the Spinward Marches and made first contact
with the Sword Worlds in 53. As part of their spinward
expeditions, the Imperial Scouts briefly visited Mire in
54 but no subsequent visits occurred due to another
interminable outbreak of civil strife in the Sword
Worlds. Recontact with the Sword Worlds was made
in 73, forming new trade routes that briefly stabilised
the region. The Darrians, still rebuilding their own
civilisation, were overlooked.

The Sword Worlds
Confederation

Darrian History

THE THIRD IMPERIUM

It was not until 148 that Imperial Scouts recontacted the
Darrians, shortly after they had again renewed contact
with the Sword Worlds. The return of the Imperium

29

