T

marked a significant change in the nature of the Spinward
Marches, which had previously been nothing more than
just a few scattered polities. Development of the Marches
began in earnest. Imperial settlements were established
throughout the region and trade routes formalised.
Contact with the immense Third Imperium brought
ready markets for goods and recourses. The Darrian
Group, as an established and stable community of
industrialised planets, was in an ideal position to
support the Imperial cultivation of the Marches.
A natural rivalry with the Sword Worlds began as both
communities vied for the same Imperial markets and
contracts. The Darrian Group, smaller than the Sword
Worlds, was more cohesive and manufactured better
products. In addition, the Sword Worlds proved to be
less stable politically, prompting preference for Darrian
markets when long-term contracts were called for.

THE FRONTIER WARS
The previous disasters that befell the Confederation
led it to make preparations for unexpected calamities.
The Darrians, once alone in the Spinward Marches,
were now surrounded by other civilisations. Solomani
refugees had colonised clusters of worlds and formed
the Sword Worlds directly trailing the Darrians. Not
only had they snatched prime real estate, the Sword
Worlders proved to be aggressive traders, competent
merchants and effective industrialists.

Darrian History

The size of the distrusted Zhodani Consulate
coreward dictated that the Darrians could not defend
themselves against the larger polity without outside
assistance. To protect its interests, the Confederation
entered the diplomatic arena.
The Darrian Confederation and the Sword Worlds
traded warily and tentatively – their relationship was
never satisfactory due to the contempt and hostility
Sword Worlders held towards Darrian culture.
At the same time, the two Confederations found
themselves competing for the same external markets –
independent worlds within the Spinward Marches and
systems along the Imperium’s border. Taken together
with the looming threat of the Consulate, the Darrians
naturally searched for diplomatic means of neutralising
its two natural adversaries. The only major power with
the ability to achieve that was the Imperium.
For 800 years after it returned to the stars, the Darrian
Confederation was content to pursue an independent
course. Trade ties with the Imperium were inevitable
but the Darrians maintained strict neutrality with regard

30

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

to military matters. In the 400s, Darrians began to see a
need for greater military security within their sphere and
so established the Special Arm and deployed the Star
Trigger as a deterrent to aggression.
For the next 100 years there was an uneasy peace.
The Zhodani and Sword Worlds made overtures to the
Darrians, proposing alliances against the Imperium.
The Darrians insisted on pursuing a neutral course
and turned them down, then further reinforced their
stance with a demonstration of the Star Trigger on a
star near Stern-Stern. The Darrians explained that
the Star Trigger could not be operated at full power,
due to the damage it would cause to nearby systems,
but the invited delegates were horrified to view the
eruption of an unusually large solar flare, cementing the
Confederation’s desire to be left in peace.
The Darrians soon began to see that the Star Trigger
was not the perfect deterrent they had hoped it would
be. The threat of destroying whole star systems was
enough to stop most aggression but it would not be
enough if the entire region were engulfed in war. The
threat of destabilising stars might keep forces out of
Darrian territory but it was unrealistic to assume the Star
Trigger could be used to ban all warfare in the sector.
They were carefully attentive to defence planning
throughout the 400s and 500s, and the uneasy peace
in the Marches steadily deteriorated throughout the
500s. In 589, after a decade of increasingly belligerent
border incidents, the Zhodani Consulate, in concert
with the Vargr and the Sword Worlds, attacked the
Imperium. The Darrian Confederation maintained its
neutrality – it seemed the wisest course of action at
the time. The Sword Worlds changed the situation
dramatically. Before the war, there were several Sword
World governments – when the war began, these
governments united to create one ruling polity under
the Sword Worlds Navy.
Mistaking neutrality for weakness, the Sword
Worlds Navy invaded the strategically placed
Entropic Worlds in 593 to capture a productive
mining complex located there. That was enough to
launch the Darrians into action and they mobilised
their forces. Overtures to the Imperium produced a
military alliance that pressured the Sword Worlds
from two sides. The First Frontier War ended in
604, unfortunately without returning the Entropic
Worlds to the Darrians. Peace however, was only an
uneasy interlude. While the antagonists accepted an
armistice, the Imperium itself faced a political crisis
that plunged it into a civil war and the Darrians were
helpless to watch as the Sword Worlds used Entrope
as a dumping ground for political dissidents.

R

