THE SECRET OF THE STAR TRIGGER

Of all the misleading cover stories that shield the Darrians, the Star Trigger is the most pervasive. The
Confederation Council realised they needed a way to hold off an invasion from the larger and more powerful
Zhodani Consulate. The Council’s solution was to build a weapon that would act as the ultimate deterrent, one
capable of causing another Maghiz. Yet, despite access to fragmented journal entries written by one of the
surviving Abh team members in which personal notes about the probe had been made, the best scientists of
the Confederation failed to replicate the effect.
Left with little choice, a small cadre of scientist used their advanced astronomical knowledge and sensors
to precisely predict a major series of solar flares of an obscure star near Stern-Stern. A completely fake Star
Trigger weapon was constructed and the Special Arm was formed to guard it and were trained in its use. Once
preparations where complete, observers from the Zhodani Consulate, Imperium and Sword Worlds were invited to
watch the carefully orchestrated demonstration. The ruse worked and the delegates were horrified by the results.
The Sword Worlders where not so easily fooled however, and doubted that the Darrians would have the courage
to deploy such a weapon. Calling the Confederation’s bluff, the Sword Worlders annexed the Entropic Worlds
during the First Frontier War. After the cease fire, Zhodani analysis noted that the Star Trigger had not been
deployed, despite it being obvious that such an action would have affected the Darrians’ own systems as well.
Taking their lack of resolve as a sign of moral weakness, the Zhodani decided to penetrate Confederation
space during the Second Frontier War. Alarmed, the Confederation Council ordered the deployment of the
Star Trigger, completely unaware that it did not work. Faced with disaster, the handful of Special Arm agents
privy to the truth were helpless to influence Council members, so they connived to briefly withdraw, allowing a
small opportunity for Zhodani agents to detect the determination of the Confederation government. The ploy
worked and the Zhodani incursion was rapidly recalled.
Over succeeding centuries, the Special Arm have carefully modified the light in which the Star Trigger is
seen, turning it from the ultimate deterrent into a horrific genocidal weapon, capable of exterminating billions
with a single application. Few in the upper echelons of the Confederation are now willing to suffer the moral
consequences of using the Star Trigger, preferring more conventional methods instead.
Yet research has continued in developing a working Star Trigger. Scientists within the Special Arm are getting
closer to discovering what precisely caused the Maghiz and the techniques required to create the Star Trigger.

On the eve of the First Frontier War, amidst the
massive military build-up, a new race arrived in
Darrian space – an Aslan ihatei fleet searching for
new territories to claim. Seeing a golden opportunity to
recruit allies to their cause, the Darrians requested aid.

Confederation fought through the First Frontier War
and maintained Darrian neutrality during the first half of
the Imperial Civil War. They again fought with Darrians
alongside Imperial forces against the Zhodani in the
Second Frontier War. Aslan commerce raiders even
ventured deep into Zhodani and Vargr territory to carry
the war behind enemy lines.

Sensing a chance to win Sword World territories by
force, the Aslan readily agreed, allying themselves with
the Confederation. Aslan served alongside humans in
Darrian troop units as well as in specially raised wholly
Aslan mercenary companies, while spacers served
aboard rapidly produced Darrian warships and on
their own Aslan-built cruisers. Aslan in service to the

Aslan loyalty was not bought with money but with the
promise of the most valuable thing an Aslan male
can possess – land of their own. When the First and
Second Frontier Wars ended, Aslan troops and spacers
were awarded vast grants of fallow territory on Daryen
and other worlds within the Darrian Group. Their

Darrian History

THE ASLAN

31

