T

service to the Confederation made them truly welcome
in the years after the war and they integrated quickly
into Darrian society as equals.

RECENT HISTORY
Frustrated at the failure of the Imperium to return lost
territory and the continued persecution of their people,
the Darrians launched their own lightning strike in
788, successfully retaking the Entropic Worlds from
the Sword Worlds. The aggressive action took the
Imperium, Zhodani and especially the Sword Worlds by
surprise, and caused the collapse of the unified Sword
Worlds government.
With the Sword Worlds unable to organise retaliation,
the Darrians made good use of the cessation of
hostilities – decommissioning hundreds of gulags they
found on Entrope and offering citizenship to any Sword
Worlders who wished to change nationality. Funding
new industrialisation and infrastructure, the burgeoning
populace began to turn Entrope from a frozen strip
mine into a highly productive manufacturing world.

Darrian History

From 800 to 860, the Imperium undertook a series
of psionic purges. While the Darrians were openminded regarding psionics, they subtly began to tone
down the open use of them in order to maintain good
relationships with their allies. The Psionic Suppressions
drove many psions to seek asylum in the Confederation
where they were covertly accepted and secreted on
Rorre. While Imperial citizens believe the Darrians
share their hatred for psionics, the higher echelons
of the military and espionage services were aware of
psionic enclaves within the Confederation but chose
not to take issue with it.

32

In 848 the Sword Worlds government again collapsed,
leading to four years of anarchy. The collapse was
welcomed by most Darrians but political scientists
feared this would eventually lead to a stronger, more
authoritarian government. Their fears proved to be
accurate with the formation of the Sword Worlds
Confederation. To their relief however, the new central
government were not able to re-establish a joint fleet.
The Darrian Confederation was not directly attacked
during the Third Frontier War (979–986) but did send
support elements to reinforce Imperial manoeuvres.
Fleet logistics revealed a technological lag in their
military productivity, so after conclusion of hostilities,
plans were set in motion to revitalise the Darrian
manufacturing base, although a lack of funding to

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

construct new capital ship dockyards became an
issue. The Imperium eventually offered to construct
new classes of cruisers for the Darrians in return for
the science behind any cutting-edge technological
specifications incorporated in their construction.
With the terms agreed, the Darrians took advantage of
the manufacturing infrastructure on Entrope to begin
work on a series of modest commercial shipyards,
together with a naval base to guard them. The plans
were seen as provocative by the Sword Worlds,
although they were impotent to intervene as the
facilities slowly approached completion just two parsecs
from their own forward military base in Hrunting.
The situation deteriorated further when the Imperium
decided to build another naval base near Quar, which
flanked Zhodani acquisitions in the Querion subsector.
The Consulate protested such antagonism, fearing
what might happen to the vulnerable spur if caught in
a strategic pincer between two major fleet facilities.
Seeing Quar as the more significant threat, the Zhodani
staged a belligerent incident near the system that
unintentionally led to the Fourth Frontier War.
Increasingly concerned by the nearly completed fleet
facilities around Entrope, the Sword Worlds used the
pretext of the Fourth Frontier War to launch an allout assault on the world, supported morally by their
Zhodani allies. The surprise attack destroyed the base
before its defences could be brought online. Flushed
with success, the Sword Worlds fleet continued on to
conquer the rest of the Entropic Worlds.
Suffering significant losses from the attack, the Darrian
Navy was forced to withdraw from the Entropic Worlds,
abandoning the outflanked penal colony on Torment in
the process. Later reconnaissance revealed the penal
installation to be empty, the fate of prisoners housed
within unknown. Shortly afterwards, a spate of vicious
pirate attacks was launched on merchant shipping
and supply lines deep within the Confederation, which
prevented a Darrian counterattack from relieving
annexed worlds before peace was signed between the
Imperium and the Zhodani.
The last 10 years has seen the arrival of the new
generation of TL15 cruisers from the Imperium and
the gradual build-up of Darrian forces in anticipation
of further Zhodani or Sword Worlds aggression. The
Confederation remains a close ally of the Imperium,
although opinions are beginning to be voiced over
Emperor Strephon’s lack of effort or assistance in
regaining the Entropic Worlds and the mistreatment of
subjugated Darrian populations.

R

