DARRIAN TRAVELLERS
Darrians follow the same procedures and concepts
as human Travellers. Unless otherwise stated in this
chapter, use all creation and career rules described in
the Traveller Core Rulebook.

describe a personal characteristic – either expressed
or hoped to be expressed – or a type of flowering plant.
The child is addressed and known by birth name until
they reach the age of majority.

DARRIANS

Taken names are what the youth chooses for
themselves once they have graduated to adulthood (17
Daryen standard years), corresponding to 19.7 Imperial
standard years. From this point on the Darrian is known
by this name, usually based on something significant
to the individual. It can literally be anything, from the
name of an ancestor or great scientist, to a type of
career or philosophical ideal. Often Solomani names
are used but they will have been converted into Darrian
form. Whatever is selected normally provides insight
into the psyche of the Darrian and can be quite subtle
and possess many levels of interpretation.

Darrian Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR-1, DEX+1, END-1, INT+1, EDU+1

TRAITS
Darrian Travellers all possess the following traits.
Heightened Senses: Darrians have slightly better
hearing and vision than humans, granting DM+1 to any
Recon or Survival check involving those senses
Ozone Immunity: Darrians are able to safely metabolise
ozone due to a naturally occurring retrovirus present in their
cells. Darrians take no damage from ozone poisoning.
Temperature Resistance: Darrians are somewhat
resistant to heat and cold damage due to their variable
metabolism. They suffer -1 less damage from extremes
of temperature in their environment.

STARTING AGE
Darrian Travellers begin their careers at 18 standard
years of age. At this point, they have the mandatory
choices of entering university or joining one of the
military branches. The first four year term must be
spent completing this service before a Darrian is
allowed to continue with another career.

NAMES

Every Darrian has three names; family name, birth
name and taken name.
Family names are passed down from the father.
They cannot be changed for any reason, not even for
marriage into another family. They generally refer to an
object or phenomenon in the natural world, ranging from
animals or plants, to types of weather, stars or eclipses.
Birth names are granted exclusively by the mother and
granted soon after birth due to superstition that the
name moulds the child to be. These names normally

36

Some example common names are Geryen (explorer),
Debhidh (David), Kim (Kim), Laris (writer), Miryem
(Miriam), Peter (Peter), Rebhek (Rebecca), Rengil
(equine-like animal), Rondigh (Roderick), Yander
(Andrew) and Zben (Sven).
Only family members or close friends address a Darrian
by their taken name only. Formal address, composed
of the family name and taken name combined, is used
by strangers, work companions or social services.
The full three names are only ever used for legal
documentation or civic records.

TITLES
Darrians do not have titles in the sense of Imperial
nobility, as such archaic feudal posturing is antithesis to
an egalitarian society. Any Darrian granted an Imperial
title cannot use it within the Confederation, as it holds
no weight, but may use it at diplomatic functions where
representatives of the Imperium may also be attending.
Darrians who make significant contributions to academia
are recognised by their high SOC. These are often
based on an administrative position at a university or by
making important discoveries that furthered their field.
Attaining such a title does not require a scholar to be
well versed in scholarly skills – although it does help
– but rather reflects the efforts made by the Darrian to
support and further the course of knowledge as a whole
by funding, voluntary teaching, revising historical data or
even editorial work on research papers.

