Most honorary titles are granted from the university
attended during their education, in order to reflect well
upon the institution. The number of titles granted however,
is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Information.
Holders of official titles are treated with respect in
Darrian society but gain few real benefits beyond that.
Some titled scholars in administrative positions use their
standing to find better funding or simply be promoted
into more prestigious university or corporate posts.

Darrian Titles
SOC

Title

10

Pedagogue

11

Preceptor

12

Adept

13

Doyen

14

Master

15

Savant

Intellectual achievements have their own titles. Any
Traveller with EDU 10+ may request to be addressed
as Professor. Those with EDU 12+ are addressed as
Emeritus Professor.

BACKGROUND SKILLS

In addition to the 3+ EDU DM skills gained from
background skills, a Darrian gains an additional
Science 0 skill. This represents the more intense and
broader base of study prevalent in Darrian society.

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

THE DRAFT
Darrians who fail to successfully enter pre-career
education or the military for their first term will be forced
to apply to the draft and be randomly sent to precareer education or one of the military services. After
a Traveller’s first term, if a Darrian fails to qualify for a
career of their choice, they may enter the Wanderer
career or apply to the draft again.

1D

Career

1–2

University

3

Military Academy

4

Guard

5

Militia

6

Navy

CAREERS
Darrians lack a few careers common to other cultures –
namely Nobles, Rogues and Scouts. These professions
either have no function in Darrian society or have
atrophied from lack of application.
Agent: Darrians are, on the whole, law abiding citizens,
so the public presence of law enforcement is minor.
Behind the scenes however, the Confederation is a
hive of foreign espionage activity, which the Darrians
are hard pressed to restrict.
Entertainer: The range of Darrian arts is
comprehensive, from the simplest songs and dances to
epic historic poetry and the crafting of objects pleasing
to the eye.
Envoy: Darrians have long used envoys to prevent
unnecessary war and avoid disagreements from
deteriorating into long feuds. They can be found at all
levels of society, from the lowliest marriage councillors
to the lofty heights of the Confederate government.
Guard: The Guard are the Confederation’s heavy
troops, who form regiments independent of home
world. The Guard are generally equipped with the
heaviest armour available, specialising in assault and
fortification tactics. They train in conjunction with militia
units so as to complement each other’s strengths. The
Guard are the functional equivalent of the Imperium’s
ground assault marines.
Merchant: Members of commercial enterprise, Darrian
merchants crew ships of the large trading corporations
or they may work as independent traders that carry
chance cargos and passengers between worlds.
Militia: The militia are the home defence forces of each
Darrian planet, specialising in guerrilla warfare, hit and
run tactics and insurgency, leaving heavy combat to the
Confederation Guard. Usually, militia forces are trained
in primitive weaponry, deception and similar skills to
make them nearly untraceable when blending in with
local populations or attacking from ambush.

Darrian Travellers

Darrians are required, for their first term, to choose to
enlist in the military or continue with further education.
Those who choose further education may use precareer education options from the Traveller Core
Rulebook, choosing university or military academy.
Once they have graduated, they may continue in any
career they choose, although many continue their
studies as a Scholar.

Darrian Draft

37

