Events

2D
2
3
4
5

6
7
8
9
10

11

1D
1
2
3

4
5
6

A misjump leaves you stranded in hostile foreign space. When ‘rescued’ you are forced to escape
before your identity is discovered. Gain Deception 1, Pilot 1 or Stealth 1.
You must discipline a disobedient junior officer. Roll Leadership or Melee 8+. If you succeed, gain
them as an Ally. If you fail, lose SOC -1 and they become a Rival.
You are caught by your superiors doing private research into restricted files. You are forced
to quickly bury your stolen data in a computer system – roll Electronics (computers) 8+. If you
succeed, you have hidden the information so you may recover it properly, using the information to
gain DM+2 on your next advancement roll. If you fail, the data is found and you are retired unless
you lie your way out of the situation with a Deception or Persuade 8+ roll. If you roll a 2, you must
take the Wanderer (exile) career in your next term.
Your senior officer or department head wishes to fast track your development. You are given
advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to increase any one skill for your career.
Life Event. Roll on the Life Event table.
Your absolute loyalty being proven time and again, you are assigned duty aboard one of the Star
Trigger ships. You may roll once on the Advanced Education table.
You are volunteered to test a new piece of experimental equipment. Gain either a device up to
TL16 or the skill to operate it at level 1.
You are sent on a black ops mission to recover a pre-Maghiz artefact from a Sword Worlds or
Zhodani military base. The intrusion goes wrong and you are forced to fight your way free. Roll
Stealth or Gun Combat 8+. If you succeed you achieve your objective and gain DM+2 to your next
advancement roll. If you fail, you were wounded in action – roll on the Injury table. Either way, you
learn from the experience and may increase two of your skills by one level each.
You learn of an ethically questionable secret concerning the Special Arm, something you are
opposed to, that could harm its reputation or significantly hamper its operations and you must
choose whether to covertly release it. Withhold the information and you find yourself automatically
promoted. Attempt to release the information and you discover it was a trap laid by your superior.
Suffer DM-4 on your next advancement roll and gain the superior as an Enemy.
Your exemplary discipline and fervour make you a natural leader amongst your peers. You are
automatically promoted and gain one level of Leadership.

MISHAP
Severely injured (this is the same as a result of 2 on the Injury table). Alternatively, roll twice on the
Injury Table and take the lower result
You learn something that you should not have and now you are on the run from the Special Arm.
Gain a senior officer as an Enemy.
A mission or research project goes wrong and you are held responsible for it. You may accept
your fate and be voluntarily retired. If you argue, roll Persuade 8+. If you succeed, you may stay in
this career. If you fail you are expelled from this career. If you roll a 2 you must take the Wanderer
(exile) as your next term.
An enemy agent targets you. Roll Gun Combat, Melee or Stealth 8+. If you fail, roll on the
Injury table. Either way, concern is raised regarding how or why the agent was after you,
forcing you into retirement.
The other side attempts to turn you. If you accept, gain three extra Benefit rolls as you fake your
own death and flee the Confederation.
Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

9

Darrian Travellers

Mishaps

12

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

57

