C

ENTRAL SUPPLY CATALOGUE: DARRIAN

Darrian equipment ranges from the practical to odd
high-tech novelties, all of which are sculpted with soft
ergonomic curves. Like their Aslan citizens, Darrians
like natural materials but do not tend to use them in
the manufacture of equipment, instead preferring
functional, hard wearing substances such as metals,
which last longer.
All Darrian equipment is built to last, partly due to the
severe lessons learned after the Maghiz and partly to
conserve natural resources. Most devices are sold with
a guarantee of several decades. Equipment that breaks
is returned to the manufacturer for refurbishment or, if
replacement parts are no longer available, a partially
subsidised replacement.
This cultural bias has a significant effect on Darrian
economics. The base cost of any device is extremely
high when compared to its Imperium counterpart
– often 150% to 200% more – with further income
generated from servicing and repairs. However, the
lifespan of a device is decades rather than a handful
of years for Imperium equivalents. When viewed
over time, Darrian goods are actually cheaper.
Confederation exports, however, struggle to find a
market in the rapid turnover, materialistic markets
outside its own borders, save in the province of military
or high-quality luxury items.
Since most Darrian goods have been extrapolated
to the maximum possible utility of their Tech Level,
there is little scope for ‘improved’ versions or new
functionality. Instead, Darrians venerate age in their
devices. The older an operable piece of equipment is,
the more aesthetically valuable it becomes.
In the event that a new technological advancement
is made, a plethora of new designs appear, taking
advantage of the performance increase. For many
products, however, there is little that science can do to
better the basic purpose.
Equipment in this chapter with a cost listed as ‘not
available’ cannot be found on the open market but may
be available on the black market.

62

PERSONAL PROTECTION

Armour is rarely seen on most Darrian worlds, its
use generally reserved for militia or special armed
police units. Most Darrians prefer the freedom to
move quickly and with stealth, using natural cover.
However, battlefield conditions often leave little option
since secondary effects of some weapons require a
sealed suit for protection. Of course, the Confederation
manufactures their own high end combat armour
and battle dress, rivalling the Imperium’s own but
incorporating slightly different tactical specifications.
Civilian armour is sometimes used in hostile roles, such
as vacuum mining, or with exoskeletal support when
Darrians visit worlds of uncomfortably high gravity.

Gel Suit: Primarily used for recreation such as vehicle

racing or contact sports, the gel suit is a skin tight
body glove, similar to a wetsuit. It comprises a reactive
gel sandwiched between two layers of ballistic cloth.
Violent impacts cause the gel to solidify, distributing the
force of the blow across a wider surface. Although the
suit permits full mobility, it momentarily hardens when
blocking damage, reducing the wearer’s initiative by -1
for each attack it blocks in a round. The cost includes
separate gloves and hood.

Guard Armour: Issued to infantry forces of Darrian

worlds, guard armour is designed for direct conflict
but still versatile enough for guerrilla tactics. A combat
armour equivalent, guard armour acts as a normal
vacc suit against pressure and radiation but carries
an improved camouflage system, using an advanced
bio-engineered molecular surface, which mimics
its surroundings. Attempts to detect the wearer
suffer DM-4 to Recon checks in both the visible and
infrared spectrum. The entire suit is powered by biomechanical motion, such as breathing or walking,
to prevent extraneous electrical signals. Although
the armour is stripped of electronic components, it
remains expensive due to the unique hydraulic and
biochemical technologies used in its construction.

