MEDICAL SUPPLIES

The majority of Darrian drugs are grown directly from
small herbs and bushes. A few plants containing
mild pain killers and antacids are freely available for
purchase, with detailed consumption guidelines. More
dangerous drugs are strictly controlled, requiring
specialised soil additives, specific light wavelengths
or for the plant to be tailored to the patient’s genetic
profile. Darrian apothecaries usually comprise a small
arboretum tended by botanical pharmacologists.
Medicines are sold in a variety of forms:
• Leaves, applied to an area to naturally defuse
medications into the skin.
• Leaves or fruits to be chewed or consumed raw.
• Bark or roots that are infused into hot liquid and
then consumed.
• Salves produced from sap and mixed with a natural
base of correct viscosity.
• Intravenous serum rendered from sap or infusions.
All drugs in the Traveller Core Rulebook and Central
Supply Catalogue up to TL14 are available in Darrian
space at the listed price. Unless specifically loaded into a
device for automated delivery, all medical supplies come
in the form of plant material. Anagathics are not available
at all off the shelf but can be specially imported.
Lizard Juice: Only a few intact ampoules of lizard juice
have been discovered in pre-Maghiz Darrian research
bases and were rapidly confiscated by the Special Arm
for analysis. Consumed by an injured individual, the
silvery liquid heals all damage at the rate of END DM+1
per hour. Moreover, the elixir remains in the patient’s
body, continuing to heal wounds for years after being
taken. It can even regenerate missing non-vital organs
at a rate of one kilogram of tissue per day.

Item

TL

Kg

Cost

Lizard Juice

16

—

Not Available

No augments are available with the Confederation,
save perhaps on Lebev. The Darrians dislike any
form of augmentation or genetic modification, seeing
them as a crutch for those lacking discipline to master
intellectual or physical skills. Prosthetics are also
frowned upon, especially since replacement limbs and
organs can be easily cloned and are available without
cost to taxpaying citizens.
From their cultural perspective, other than laziness
to learn, the only reason for augmentation is either
criminal or espionage – neither of which are well
regarded by Darrians.

WEAPONS

MELEE WEAPONS
Due to their fragile builds,
Darrians in general avoid
hand-to-hand combat. They
practice unarmed combat
mainly for self-discipline
but lack a melee weapon
philosophy. In military
situations where stealth
is paramount, the Darrian
military are often trained
with knives to kill quietly
from ambush.
Primitive technology missile
weapons such as bows
or slings are favoured
by militia forces for their
inability to be detected
by sensor systems. Lowspeed projectiles are quiet
and can often bypass
motion detectors set to
ignore rapidly moving
animals or insects.

CSC: Darrian

Such wondrous effects come at a significant cost.
The nutritional requirements of the imbiber increase
dramatically when injured, inflicting an unceasing
hunger. Amputations are particularly dangerous, since a
patient who is not conscious can starve to death during
the regrowing process as their body is cannibalised for
energy and building material. Any ampoule of Lizard
juice is effectively priceless but brings the attention of
the Special Arm upon anyone rumoured to possess or,
worse still, have consumed it.

PERSONAL AUGMENTATION

69

