HIGH GUARD OF THE DARRIANS
Darrians have adopted Imperium protocols and
conventions for their ships, to provide compatibility
for Imperial traffic. Since the Darrians inherited jump
technology from Solomani settlers, the basic principles
of jump travel remain the same with their vessels.

HULLS
Most Darrian vessels have a slight Solomani design
influence, exhibiting sweeping curves and practical
streamlining. Internally, vessels have higher ceilings
but reclaim lost conduit space by hiding them behind
curved mouldings where floor and ceilings meet walls.
Rounded edges give the ships a slightly organic feel,
as well as providing perfect surfaces for integral lighting
units. The general feel of Darrian ships is that internal
proportions are tall and narrow.
All controls are ergonomically styled for Darrian physiology
but can be reconfigured to be useable by other humans
and Aslan. Integral furnishings such as seats and beds are
built for long torsos with ample leg room.

REDUNDANCY
Most onboard systems are built with mechanical
redundancy in mind. Bulkhead doors can be opened
with hand operated cranks and air purification modules
physically pumped, for example. Such redundant safety
concerns are at the forefront of Darrian design principles.
In similar fashion, all electronics, communications
and computers are hardened, using Darrian crystal
components. Ships are required by law to install a
separate, redundant radio communication system,
which can be used even if the main comms systems
have been destroyed. This is little more than a primitive
radio with simple EMP proof components, which is
negligible in terms of space and cost.

COMPUTER INTERFACES
Darrian shipboard computers are all capable of verbal
communication in te-zlodh, Trokh and Galanglic.
Passenger entertainment suites are a separate
computer system with no physical connection to the
vessel’s engineering, life support or flight computers.
The communication and sensor computers are only
accessible from the bridge or flight deck.

STATEROOMS
Since Darrians are egalitarian and sociable by
nature, there is little demand for high passage in the
Confederation. Liners run by bigger corporations have a
small selection of luxury staterooms for foreign visitors
but public areas are not segregated by class or rank.

75

