Skin tones range from fair to light brown, and they tan
or burn when exposed to ultraviolet radiation. Their
hair ranges in shades of white, brown, and black, with
red tones being almost unknown. Males are able to
grow sparse beards and tend to have heavy brows
and coarser features than females. Their features are
generally thick with wide lips and noses.
Geonee have slightly shorter arms and legs than Terran
humans, and their heads are slightly larger. These
larger heads have led to increased difficulty in childbirth,
meaning a greater number of birthing fatalities.
Geonee have a greater percentage of muscle tissue
than other humans, making them exceptionally strong on
worlds with lower gravity than that of their homeworld.
They store very little subcutaneous fat and are therefore
more susceptible to cold environments, though they
store visceral fat as effectively as other humans. This
leads to Geonee having a very ‘muscular’ appearance.
Internal differences in the Geonee are minor,
but noticeable under inspection. Their hearts are
proportionally larger than those of other humans,
resisting high gravity and providing an adequate blood
supply to the brain. Pulse rate is low, ranging from 40-60
beats per minute in healthy adults. While their hearts
beat more slowly than those of other humans, a greater
volume of blood is pumped with each heartbeat. Geonee
also have a larger volume of blood in their bodies –
approximately 40% to 60% greater than other humans –
leading to significantly higher blood pressure.
The valves in Geonee veins are stronger than those
of other humans, assisting in the prevention of blood
pooling. Furthermore, muscle fibres surrounding veins
constrict autonomously, further assisting in returning
blood to the heart.

Geonee possess an internal skeletal structure that has
evolved to be naturally denser and stronger compared
to those of other humans. A dense bone structure
makes them less susceptible to fractures and breaks
on worlds with gravity lower than their homeworld.
Breaks on worlds with similar gravity to their homeworld
are statistically similar to those of humans from other
gravities. Geonee joints are protected by significantly

They have senses equivalent to those of other
humans except for hearing. The denser atmosphere of
Shiwonee carries sound so well that they developed
hearing that is less sensitive.

LIFESPAN
Geonee have a gestation period lasting for
approximately 8.25 standard months, which
corresponds to nine Shiwonee months. Births can be
difficult due to the large heads of babies compared
to hip size. The death of both mother and child was
common in the past, but modern medical technology
has largely alleviated this issue. Single offspring are
the norm; multiple births are rare and limited to twins.
There is no significant disparity between the number of
male and female young birthed. Young are generally
weaned at one and a half years old.
The young normally remain in the care of their
parents until they reach the age of 18, when they are
considered adults. Whether a young Geonee leaves
the family unit at this point is usually a matter of
circumstance and gender.
Geonee are considered to be in their prime from the
ages of 18-50, after which they tend to age quickly,
though even old Geonee can be surprisingly strong.
The loss of mental faculties tends to inflict a higher cost
on Geonee as they age, often leaving them in the care
of their children or a nursing home as they lose the
ability to care for themselves.
They have an average lifespan of 70 standard years,
assuming access to modern medicines. Anagathics
significantly lengthen this lifespan.

DIET

Geonee are omnivorous, able to consume both plant
and animal protein, but they have a natural preference
for meat. Vegetarian and vegan lifestyles are almost
unheard of. Most Geonee prefer meat to be lightly
seared, with a minimum of seasoning; they find most
spices to be distasteful. Common dishes are composed
primarily of an animal protein, served with a small
amount of similarly cooked vegetables and covered
with a simple sauce flavoured with herbs.

The Geonee

The diaphragm is somewhat weaker in Geonee, as
less effort is required to draw in the dense atmosphere
on Shiwonee. This makes them susceptible to ‘altitude
sickness’ when exposed to less dense atmospheres
which other human species might find comfortable.
Despite this disadvantage, Geonee are able to adapt
faster to most new environments.

thicker cartilage, leading them to remain limber in their
home gravity far longer than other humans. Likewise,
their ligaments are also significantly thicker to prevent
excessive wear and tear in high gravity.

They do not enjoy sweet foods, preferring bitter or
sour flavours.

93

