T

SOCIETY

While there is considerable cultural diversity among the
Geonee, there are a number of customs and traditions
that are common among them.

CONSERVATIVISM

The Geonee are naturally a conservative people,
finding great comfort in traditions passed down
from antiquity and still practiced in the modern day.
Tradition covers almost every aspect of Geonee life,
and those who stray from conservative values are
viewed in a suspicious light.
The tradition of conservativism can be traced to the
harsh environment of Shiwonee, forcing the Geonee
to adopt behaviours that maximised chances of
survival, and deviation from those behaviours could
prove detrimental to both individual and society. This
has led to traditions being seen as the ‘right’ way to
do things and going against tradition the ‘wrong’ way,
reckless and foolhardy.
This sense of conservatism should not be confused
with lack of ambition or innovation. The Geonee value
both highly, but they must be bound by tradition and the
right way of doing things.

PATRIARCHY

The Geonee

Nothing shows this conservative nature better than the
strictly patriarchal society exhibited on most Geonee
worlds. In traditional Geonee society, only males may
own property, conduct business, or enter politics;
females have almost no rights. Every female must
be under the protection of a male relative. In extreme
cases, this protection extends to keeping females under
lock and key, but this exclusion is more common on
Shiwonee than other Geonee worlds where necessity
often overcomes traditional values.

94

When not in the protective enclosure of the home,
female Geonee are expected to be accompanied by a
male relative, who serves to protect her both physically
and morally. Women are forbidden to interact with
unrelated men unless permission is first sought by
the male from the woman’s guardian. If permission is
granted, it is expected that the male guardian remains
present at all times to act as chaperone. Traditionally,
an unrelated male will only interact with a woman
through her guardian.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Every aspect of a woman’s life is governed by her
male protector, giving them little power in Geonee
society except within the home. Women control all
aspects of running a household, from controlling
finances to making decisions that affect the household
as a whole. They are provided the same educational
opportunities as males, albeit normally via a
combination of home-based and virtual learning. A
well-educated woman is a great asset to her family,
able to exert significant influence over male relatives
to the point of controlling businesses or having
political impact through advice and manipulation.

CHIRPERS

A subspecies of Chirper is native to Shiwonee,
sharing an almost symbiotic relationship with the
Geonee. Called selweeda or ‘matchmaker’ in native
Geonee, these Chirpers have been integrated into
every aspect of society and taken to every Geoneesettled world. They are seen as something between
pet and friend, and play an important role in Geonee
marriage tradition.
When a Geonee male feels he is ready to marry,
he must attract and befriend a Chirper, which then
becomes a symbol of the marriage. Chirpers are by
nature very shy, and have the psionic ability to become
invisible in the minds of others in order to avoid being
seen. Establishing a lasting relationship with a Chirper
is therefore a considerable challenge.
To prepare for marriage, a Geonee male will build a
small dwelling on his property suitable for a Chirper,
and begin leaving fresh food, water, and whatever he
thinks might attract a selweeda. By diligently caring
for this abode, a Chirper may begin using the dwelling
as a home. After much anxious waiting, and when the
Chirper feels safe and comfortable with its Geonee
benefactor, it may choose to reveal itself. After a few
months the selweeda may be happy enough in its new
home that the Geonee can perform a special ceremony
known as a krandee, or ‘calling out’. In this ceremony,
the Geonee must convince the Chirper to reveal
itself for a few seconds to its benefactor’s closest
relatives. Only after the selweeda has been seen by
the Geonee’s male relatives – his father, uncles, and
brothers, can he then marry.
Logically, the selweeda could be seen at night while it
was sleeping, as its natural ability to become invisible is
not active, but this goes against Geonee tradition.

R

