After the krandee, the Geonee male and his male
relatives are permitted to approach the male relatives
of the woman he would like to marry, and make his
intentions known. The decision to allow the woman to
marry is based on many things, not least of which is his
social position, ability to care for her, provide shelter, and
career potential. If the head of the woman’s household
agrees to the union, an appropriate dowry is arranged,
and the woman’s male relatives are taken to the selweeda
to witness the krandee. If all goes well, the dowry and
woman are exchanged and the marriage sealed.
The Chirper’s trust is seen as a crucial symbol of the
marriage bond. Indeed, if the husband ever loses his
Chirper’s confidence to the point that it leaves him, the
marriage is instantly dissolved. It makes no difference
if the marriage is brand new or well established, if
there are children or not, or whether the couple are
themselves happy with the marriage. According to
Geonee tradition, it is the presence of the selweeda
which determines the validity of the marriage. In fact,
the absence of the selweeda is the only way, other than
death of a spouse, to dissolve a marriage.

SELWEEDA
The Chirpers on Geonee worlds belong to a
distinct subspecies, which differ from those
encountered elsewhere in Charted Space. They
have unusually low intelligence, putting them on
the boundary of dull sophonts and bright animals,
are stronger than other Chirpers and have larger
wingspans that allow them to fly in Shiwonee’s
dense atmosphere despite its high gravity.
Like other Chirpers, they possess limited psionic
capabilities, especially the ability to become
invisible to other beings when feeling endangered.
Invisibility: Chirpers have the natural psionic talent to
make people lose track of them or to escape notice. A
Traveller who knows there is someone or something
nearby can make a Difficult (10+) Recon or INT check
to focus for a few moments. The Traveller will be able
to see any mind-clouding Chirpers for 1D rounds for
every point of Effect or one round if the Effect is zero.
Maximum range is Very Long.

Of course, the disappearance of the Chirper is seldom
noticed by any other than its benefactor, given its ability
to become invisible. Regardless, most Geonee take
the relationship between selweeda and marriage very
seriously. While this makes it easy for a disgruntled
husband to divorce his wife (just abuse the Chirper a
little), happily married men take extra care in keeping
their selweeda satisfied.
For most male Geonee, this is simply a matter of
providing good food and a comfortable abode. For
those who travel the stars, the only way to guarantee a
happy selweeda is to take the Chirper along. A Geonee
will never entrust another to care for his selweeda, so
the Chirper follows him wherever he travels.

MARRIAGE BY CAPTURE

Animal

Hits

Speed

Selweeda

12

—

Skills

Athletics (dexterity) 1, Flight 1,
Melee 0, Recon 2, Stealth 3,
Survival 2

Attacks

Claws (D3)

Traits

Flyer (very slow), Psionic (6),
Small (-1)

Behaviour

Gatherer, Omnivore

The Geonee

An unusual custom is the ekrondee, or marriage by
capture. Under some circumstances, a female may be
abducted or ‘captured’ by a male by forcing a female’s
relatives to give her up in marriage. When this is
attempted, it usually results in bloody violence, because
it assumes the husband-to-be must be desperate, and
such a capture brings great shame upon the female’s
family, though it does serve to bypass the need to
befriend a selweeda as a precursor to marriage. This
form of marriage is recognised in Geonee law, but is
very different from the standard form; the woman is
seen as chattel rather than a full wife.

95

