T

This marriage can also be achieved when a family
voluntarily gives up unmarried females. This can occur
when there are no living male relatives, or the family
finds it can no longer afford the upkeep of their single
women. If there are living male relatives, they will put
up a nominal display of protecting the women, as the
shame of not being able to afford the upkeep the family’s
women is even greater than having them abducted.
Naturally, the existence of this does nothing to
discourage Geonee men from overprotecting their
female relatives.

FAMILY

Geonee families normally consist of a married couple,
their adult unmarried daughters, and any children below
the age of adulthood. While a male Geonee may only
be married to a single woman through krandee, there is
no limit to the number of wives obtained via ekrandee.
In fact, it is a matter of great pride to be able to afford
to upkeep a large number of women, but having more
than they are able to afford is a source of great shame.
Therefore, a Geonee will undertake some forethought
before he undertakes ekrandee.

The Geonee

The head of the family is the eldest married male,
responsible for all other family members. The patriarch
is the ultimate authority. His position is followed by his
unmarried sons, in order of birth, followed by the sons’
mother – if they are from krandee birth – his krandee
wife, his ekrandee wives, and finally his daughters. It is
unusual for there to be more than one married couple
living in same household. Orders and demands of
males are to be obeyed, unless countermanded by a
male of greater authority.

96

A couple will normally only have one child, assuming
a male child is born. Inheritance is only through male
offspring, and having a male heir is of paramount
importance to Geonee fathers. Despite this, a family will
hesitate to produce more children than they can afford,
to prevent the shame of having to give up unmarried
woman due to financial hardship.
Offspring produced though ekrandee are viewed
slightly differently to those conceived within krandee.
Males are seen as legitimate sons, and enjoy treatment
equal to any produced in krandee. They are fully
entitled to a share of inheritance upon their father’s
death, though a son born of krandee marriage will
always have seniority, regardless of order of birth, to
those of ekrandee.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Females of ekrandee are seen as their mother is
seen – little more than chattel. They are effectively
illegitimate, and never treated as equal to daughters
produced within krandee.
In the past, Geonee have been known to practice
infanticide of female babies. This abhorrent tradition
was encouraged by the value held for males, and
the demands required in the caring for females. This
practice was far more prevalent in poorer families, who
could not afford to raise female children, and is largely
condemned and outlawed by modern Geonee – though
they bear no shame in it having occurred in the past.
While the practice of female infanticide is publicly
scorned, it still occurs on the core Geonee
worlds in rural areas and among fundamentalist
traditionalists. The practice causes a great deal
of strife because of the sexual imbalances that
it creates. Unwed young males often become a
source of instability in society, a situation that is
exacerbated by the practice of polygamy.
Formal education is required by law, except for
illegitimate daughters who are only allowed what
education their father deems appropriate. Children
begin schooling at the age of five. Boys are normally
sent to a boarding institution and only visit the family
on holidays. Girls are educated at home, either by their
mother, a tutor, or via virtual classes. Education must
continue until a child is 18, at which point they are
considered adults. Young men are free to continue their
education or begin pursuing a career. Young women
are no longer required to be educated by law, but many
fathers choose to continue their daughters’ education to
improve desirability for marriage.
Traditionally, men enter the same occupation as their
father, seen as an indication of a son’s respect for his
father and continuation of the family heritage. Many
occupations have remained within the same families for
countless generations, and it is a matter of great pride
to be in a trade with a long familial tradition.
In traditional Geonee societies, women are not
permitted to work outside the home, but it is not
unusual for them to practice some sort of craft or
industry that brings more income into the family. Some
of the finest crafts created by the Geonee are produced
by women, who have passed down knowledge from
mother to daughter for generations. Traditionally,
money produced by these products belongs to the
patriarch of the family, but it is not unusual for women
to receive an allowance for their efforts.

R

