Males are free to leave home once they have turned
18, but many remain in the family home until they
marry. Women are only permitted to leave home once
they have been married.

education, best jobs, and best products. It is not unusual,
even in democratic governments, for political positions
to be held by members of the nobility. The other classes
regard the nobility as the best individuals to lead.

NOMADISM

Below the noble class is the high class, consisting
of wealthy business magnates and entrepreneurs.
They have risen from the lower classes either through
accident of birth and inheritance, or successful
business ventures. They are the driving force behind
Geonee technical innovation. Regardless of their
wealth though, the poorest noble still outranks the
wealthiest member of the high class.

Shiwonee is not only geologically unstable, but also
exhibits several climate peculiarities. In effect, the
entire temperate zone moves across the planet’s
surface, following a 95-year cycle. All native life
has adapted to this cycle by adopting nomadic and
migratory patterns, and the Geonee are no exception.
Even in eras of high technology, entire Geonee cities
move to follow climatic changes.
Nomadism is a key aspect of Geonee culture. In the
past, they have preferred to form small communities
that can be quickly packed up and moved. In the face
of necessity, they swiftly abandon their estates – but
not their property rights – and move to find more
hospitable locations. This has led to wealthy Geonee
owning a large number of traditional properties and
estates scattered across the surface of the world,
inhabited when the climate was favourable and then
abandoned, only to return a century or more later to
take up residence once again.
Geonee living off their homeworld are similarly rootless.
They willingly move from world to world, following economic
opportunities as they arise. As a result, Geonee can be
found almost anywhere in the Imperium and beyond.

COMMUNITY
The patriarchal mindset of the family is mirrored in
the greater Geonee community. The patriarch of an
extended family is the oldest male relative directly
related to any younger Geonee. Extended families can
become quite large, and hence hold significant weight
within the community. While a married man is the
head of his own household, he will still treat any older
married men in his extended family with great respect.

Regardless of the governmental structure of a Geonee
world, there exists a class structure which strongly
effects those within. At the top of this are the traditional
noble families whose members have access to the best

Below this is the low class, consisting primarily of
women, married and unmarried alike. No matter to
which class a woman is married into, or who her father
is, she will always remain a member of the low class.
Within the low class though, are a series of strata which
place some women above others. For example, the
wife or daughter of a noble is of greater import than that
of a middle-class lawyer, and the wife or daughter of a
middle-class sewerage worker is of greater import than
any member of lower classes.
The lowliest members of the low class consist of the
daughters of women married through abduction. They
are viewed as property of their husbands and fathers,
but not without rights. They are legally entitled to be
well treated, provided with food, clothing, and privacy.
Some women of this class are lucky enough to enter
into a krandee marriage and hence rise to a higher
stratum in the low class, but the best most can expect
is to be forced into ekrandee union.
Below even the low class, are the classless. They are
the women who have no living male relatives to protect
and provide for them. These women have nothing
and are often forced to subsist by whatever means
available. While protected by law from being assaulted
or killed, many find themselves in unsavoury situations.
Geonee governments provide group homes for these
women, where they are provided with the minimum of
food, clothing, and protection.

The Geonee

Each family is a member of a nomadic group, expected
to follow the traditions of and work towards their group’s
success. Each belongs to a nation, each nation a world,
and each world to the Geonee Cultural Region. A complex
web of community interconnections exists. Each stratum
of the community is expected to work for the betterment of
the larger whole, and failure to do so is shameful.

Next is the middle class, comprising the vast majority
of the Geonee. This is the class of the common
worker. While the high class is seen as the drivers of
innovation, it is the workers of the middle class who
strive to bring the desires of the noble and high classes
to fruition. They are the tradesmen, labourers, office
workers, technicians, and myriad of other occupations
required for a functioning community. Through hard
work and luck, a member of the middle class is able to
rise to the ranks of the high class.

97

