T

TECHNICAL MASTERY
The Geonee place great value on technology and
technological skill. This has its origins in the difficult
environment of their homeworld and its severe seismic
activity. During early Geonee history, quakes and
volcanoes caused frequent disasters, repeatedly
forcing communities to start anew. As a result, the
Geonee regard nature not as a friend, but a hostile
force to be feared and controlled; technology is the
means to conquer and dominate nature.
The Geonee enjoy experiencing technical devises at
work and their aesthetic sense is closely attuned to
elegant design and smooth functioning. When handed
a clever device, a Geonee will react with amusement
and delight. When viewing a large, efficiently work of
engineering such as a dam, grav city, or starship, they
will experience admiration and even awe.
This enjoyment of technology does not mean science and
technology should be pursued for their own sake, rather
they should have a definite purpose in society. Technology
and science must provide practical solutions to everyday
problems. As a result, the Geonee tend to produce
technicians and engineers rather than theoretical scientists,
sometimes posing a problem with the development of
major scientific breakthroughs. While they are not devoid of
the capacity for innovation, making existing systems work is
far more emphasised than devising new technology.

OWNERSHIP

The Geonee

The Geonee view the concept of ownership as
fundamental to order in society. The value of an
individual is directly related to his possessions and an
indicator of his achievements. Conversely, everything
must belong to somebody. Geonee are always the first
to ask who owns a particular item.

98

This preoccupation with ownership should not
be confused with egotism or greed. For Geonee,
ownership creates an order, allowing society to prosper
and giving individuals concrete objectives. Ownership
offers a sense of purpose.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Nearly every facet of society is related to this basic trait,
which in turn influences the way society is conceived. To
Geonee, the most critical function of government is to
create a basic framework to ensure property rights. The
objective of law is to protect ownership. This underpinning
prevents the emergence of chaos and allows society to
prosper and grow upon solid foundations. Businesses
are viewed as the mechanism which allows ownership to
change, thus avoiding stagnation.

PRIDE
Pride and self-image are inexorably tied to group
membership. Geonee feel a sense of belonging to their
race, social class, profession, nomad group, and to any
other group they identify with. This pride gives value to
individual actions.
In Geonee society, an individual’s position is tied directly
to the position of the groups they belong to; an inferior
group must be composed of inferior individuals. Thus,
every Geonee constantly strives to demonstrate the
superiority of their profession, their planet, their race.

PSIONIC TOLERANCE
The Geonee have always been very tolerant of
psionic abilities, which is not surprising considering
the close, almost symbiotic relationship they share
with the selweeda. While their chance of being
psionic is the same as most other humans, Geonee
have always celebrated psionic abilities when found
among their own people. Psionic institutes were once
found on many Geonee populated worlds, and the
Shiwonee Psionic Institute was recognised as one of
the best in the Imperium.
This attitude caused significant friction between
the Geonee and the Imperium during the Psionic
Suppressions of the late 700s. The Geonee at first
considered the claims of the Office of the Emperor
and Intelligence Agency of psionic operatives working
to weaken the Imperium as only being relevant in the
Spinward Marches – they believed the claims had no
merit in the Massilia sector.
When evidence of Zhodani funding psionic institutes
was made public, a panic swept over the Imperium.
Psionic witch hunts were reported on hundreds of
worlds, and public opinion of psionically talented
individuals soured. The Geonee core worlds could not
turn a blind eye this change.

R

