The Meeralo Council made a public show of
closing down Geonee psionic institutes and sent all
psionically talented individuals to internment camps,
strongly advising all other Geonee core worlds do
the same. Naturally, this caused an uproar among
the population, just as the Council knew it would.
The public on all core worlds rallied in mass protests
against the treatment of the psionically gifted. The
Meeralo Council mobilised the army to contain the
protests and military action provoked riots among the
protesters, which caused the Council to respond with
issuing martial law to contain the violence. From the
outside, it appeared the Geonee were acting in good
faith to put an end to the ‘psionic scourge’.
Behind the scenes though, the Meeralo Council used
the unrest to remove psionic institutes from public
view and into clandestine operation. Secretly, word
was sent out to far flung colonies that safety from the
psionic persecutions could be found in the Geonee
Cultural Region. Word continued to be spread by
Geonee traders far from the core worlds. Gradually,
underground ‘railroads’ sprung up all across the
Imperium, taking psions to Geonee worlds where they
could be hidden and trained safely.
The riots on Geonee worlds were eventually quelled,
and most of those arrested found their charges quietly
dropped. Those who did go to trial and found guilty
were issued remarkably lenient sentences.
The institutes were no more, and the use of psionics
outlawed. The Geonee were seen to follow the
Imperium norm, with none being the wiser to the truth.
The Imperium find the Geonee lackadaisical approach
to the threat psionics pose to be something of a worry,
commenting on the tolerance the Geonee show
towards Chirpers living so openly among them. The
Geonee just shrug and reply it is their tradition, and
Shiwonee Chirpers are little more than animals, so how
could they possibly be Zhodani spies?

The Geonee do not view themselves as human,
and reject the usual taxonomic classification of
Homo sapiens geonesis. Rather, they firmly believe
themselves to be the Ancients. In some Geonee, this
belief reaches an almost zealous belief. In others, it is
simply an irrefutable fact which the rest of the galaxy
has no choice but to ultimately accept.

They believe their ancestors came from the stars after
a cataclysmic galactic war. ‘Official’ history claims the
core Geonee worlds have been inhabited ever since
the Final War, when their ancestors sought refuge.
According to Geonee, their ancestors possessed
god-like technology and uplifted several species to
sophont status, including the Vilani and Solomani.
These species formed the basis for Humaniti.
The Geonee also believe their ancestors uplifted
Chirpers into Droyne and distributed them across
the galaxy. The Vargr are another example of their
ancestor’s experiments.
These claims have found little support among
independent scholars. However, some surprising facts
have to be taken into account. All of the Geonee core
systems have extensive asteroid belts, which arguably
have their origin in the Final War. There are numerous
Ancients sites in these systems, which include facilities
obviously built with the Geonee in mind. Lastly, Geonee
technology throughout history has been among the
most advanced known.
The Geonee consider themselves to be a Major Race,
equal in prestige and importance with the Solomani,
Vilani, and Zhodani. Other races, and the Third
Imperium as a whole, dispute this, since the Geonee
gained their jump technology by reverse engineering an
Ancients derelict. The Geonee response to this claim is
the ship they gained the technology from belonged to
their own ancestors.
Organised religion among the Geonee is rarely
followed. There are examples of a form of ancestor
veneration among some, a holdover from the primitive
belief of the god-status of their Ancients forebears.
This is more of a personal affair rather than organised
religion, and generally considered an unsophisticated
view to have in the light of modern science. Little is
known of this veneration among outsiders, as it is
rarely spoken of, and considered something of an
embarrassment that such a technologically advanced
race could still hold beliefs in supernatural gods.

The Geonee

BELIEFS

In their own language, the word geonee means ‘old
ones’. The singular, adonee, is seldom used to refer to
an individual member of the race, and can be construed
as an insult when spoken by another, serving to isolate
the individual from the group, and hence their sense of
self-worth. Instead, a Geonee will refer to themselves
as Geonee-draveera or ‘descendant of the old ones.’

99

