T

BREAKING WITH TRADITION

The origins of Geonee traditional values, particularly the
control of females and enforcement of strict gender roles,
has been attributed to many factors. Perhaps first and
foremost are the conditions of the Geonee homeworld.
Shiwonee is an inhospitable place, affected by high
gravity, challenging climatic conditions, volcanism and
natural disasters that occur throughout its surface. While
the Geonee were genetically optimised to survive on
Shiwonee by the Ancients, little was done to the planet
itself to protect its inhabitants from the harsh environment.

The Geonee

The ancient Geonee became nomads, constantly
on the move from one place to the next while fleeing
natural disasters. This meant that most habitations
were temporary, and few permanent cities developed.
Most of the population were small, tribal groups. Their
mobility frequently put them at odds with other Geonee
who contended for the same resources. Much like
other humans, the Geonee are largely driven by certain
social instincts. Geonee females were strictly controlled,
taken from their families and assigned to males based
on tribal traditions including the use of selweeda
(Chirpers) and marriage by capture. This was a survival
adaptation. Related males go to war with each other
less often and tend to work together to defeat common
foes or tackle environmental challenges. A byproduct of
these behaviours was patrilineal descent lines and the
relegation of women to the role of property.

100

Most modern human societies shed such barbaric
cultural trappings, but for various reasons, Geonee
oppression of women had not, until recently, shown
signs of abating. The Geonee are an anomaly.
Overachieving technological societies usually require
significant contributions from all of their population, not
just the members of one of its sexes. To compete on a
galactic level, a species simply cannot perform well with
‘one hand tied behind its back’. However, the Geonee
were gifted most of their technology by the Ancients, who
left enough intact relics to jump start their civilisation,
enabling them to maintain oppressive traditions long
after they became impractical. The Vilani, who rightfully
perceived the starfaring Geonee as a threat, did what
they could to perpetuate traditional practises among the
Geonee in order to suppress their advancement. After
the fall of the Ziru Sirka and subsequent Rule of Man,
the Long Night sent Geonee technological advancement
into deep decline for nearly two millennia, perpetuating
traditional behaviours even longer.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In modern times, Geonee culture has undergone
revolutionary changes. While traditional practises
are still enforced on the core Geonee worlds – such
as Shiwonee and Lagna – many new settlements
and colonies have done away with impractical
traditions in favour of more expedient ones. Chief
among these is the oppression of women. While
women living on the core Geonee worlds can expect
a life of domestic servitude, those on the frontiers
of Geonee expansion live quite independent lives.
Careers usually limited only to males are taken
by females with varying levels of participation.
Some worlds, even on the frontier, maintain the old
traditions as best they can, keeping women in the
home and out of sight from society; however, most
allow a significant portion of their female population
partial or complete autonomy in selecting a career
outside the home. Independent females who have
chosen not to wed a male become the heads of their
households, a practice forbidden on the core worlds.
While women rarely occupy the top ranks of most
careers, female admirals, generals and chief
executive officers are not unheard of. These more
liberal practices are enabled by the long reach of
Geonee settlement. Not just any world can serve as
a viable Geonee habitation; they prefer large worlds
with high gravity and dense atmospheres, where
they are most comfortable. They also prefer worlds
touched by the Ancients, whom they believe to be
their ancestors. Geonee particularity has resulted in
a far-flung ‘pseudo empire’ of sorts with long tendrils
reaching throughout the Massilia sector and deep
into the Core, Diaspora, the Old Expanses and other
neighbouring sectors. Modern Geonee have access
to the greatest technology available in the Imperium,
but the distance between the settlements and the
core worlds has resulted in greater cultural diversity.
The settlements are like distant ‘islands’ of Geonee
culture, many of which are free to chart their own
paths and change traditions as they see fit.
The Geonee have great aspirations and believe that a
supreme destiny lies ahead of them. Ironically, it might
be the people of their most distant settlements and
colonies who serve as the catalysts to achieve that
destiny. To compete with the great powers of Charted
Space, to walk among its giants, will require all of the
Geonee, not just the male portion of their population.

R

