GOVERNMENT

Most Geonee worlds are traditionally governed, directly
or indirectly, by oligarchic noble families. Shiwonee
is governed by the Meeralo Council, an ancient
body composed of 18 married men, representatives
from each world in the Geonee Cultural Region, and
chaired by the Duke of Shiwonee. The number of
representatives a world has is based on population
and importance, but Council membership has been
traditionally maintained at 18. Members of the Meeralo
Council hold their position for life and have the right
to select their successors. In theory, any married man
can be elected to the Council, but in practice all 18
positions are held by nobles. The head of the Council
is Subsector Duke Karnordo Neowashee, and while his
vote is equal to any other Council member, his opinion
holds significant sway.

MEERALO COUNCIL

While the Meeralo Council only directly rules the
homeworld, it significantly influences the core worlds within
the Geonee Cultural Region. A holdover from the Geonee
Confederation, the Geonee Cultural Region is strongly
centralised. The Meeralo Council sets policy which directs
the region and, where contradictions exist, overrules local
planetary differences. The Council does not generally
interfere with internal affairs of member planets, allowing
them to govern themselves as they see fit, as long as the
laws as set down by the Council are followed. Exceptions
do and have occurred, especially when serious grievances
are brought to the Council for adjudication.
Political disputes from any core world can be brought
before the Council, whose decisions are final and
binding. The Council also acts as the highest court of
appeal in the Geonee Cultural Region. Any Geonee may
bring their case to the Meeralo Council to be heard but,
in practice, only the wealthiest can afford the expense.

Below the Meeraloo Council are five sub-councils which
oversee key functions, each headed by a member of
the Council. Traditionally, the sub-councils are led by
councillors from Shiwonee, but the Duke of Shiwonee
is free to name whichever councillor he wishes as
head of a particular sub-council. There is significant
jockeying of power among councillors to be asked to
lead a sub-council, as it imparts significant prestige and
greater access to the subsector duke.

The Geonee Cultural Region funds and trains its own
navy and a number of army brigades, which fall under
the authority of the Defence Council. Called the Geonee
Self Defence Force, it consists of the Geonee Self
Defence Navy and the Geonee Self Defence Army. Each
member world is required to provide defence personnel
and equipment to the Self Defence Force, these forces
normally stationed at their planet of origin unless
involved in training exercises or mobilised for action.
The Defence Council is unable to mobilise the Self Defence
Force without express approval of the Duke of Shiwonee.

LAW COUNCIL
The Law Council is the legislative authority of the
Geonee Cultural Region. It raises legislature which
effects interstellar trade within the region, such as
trade taxes and prohibited items, as well as providing
oversight to legislature machinery of all member worlds.
Suggested new and revised interstellar laws are
created in the Law Council, which are then ratified by
the Meeralo Council before coming into effect. These
laws cannot supersede Imperial Law.
In its capacity of oversight of laws, the Law Council
reviews proposed laws raised by governments of
member worlds to determine if they fall within the best
interests of the Geonee as a whole, and then within
the best interests of the world in particular. Proposed
laws the Council deems as suitable are permitted to
be ratified by the member world’s government. Laws
deemed not conducive to Geonee interests may be
brought to the attention of the Meeralo Council for
consideration. In these cases, a three quarters majority
vote is required for the law to pass.
The Law Council also oversees the appointment of
the judiciary which presides over breaches of Geonee
interstellar law. In addition to hearing Geonee Cultural
Region cases, the judiciary presides over cases brought
to the Meeralo Council in its role as the supreme court
of the region. Decisions made by the judiciary in these
cases must be approved by majority vote of the Meeralo
Council. In effect, the Council normally abides by the
decisions of the judiciary, but there have been occasions
where it has declined the decision of the judiciary and
the case has been reheard.

The Geonee

As head of the Council, Duke Karnardo is also
commander in chief of the Geonee Self Defence Force.
With the support of the Meeralo Council, the duke has
the authority to mobilise the navy and armies to defend
the core worlds, and the subsector as a whole.

DEFENCE COUNCIL

101

