T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

ADRAT
TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL
The Technology Council is the body which directly
oversees the Association for the Development and
Retrieval of Advanced Technology (ADRAT). The
Technology Council reviews recovered technology
and new innovations to ensure suitability for public
availability, and ensures all approved technology and
innovations are made available to member worlds.
The council also provides oversight to the curriculum
of ADRAT technical schools and allocates funding to
individual ADRAT offices throughout Charted Space.

COLONISATION COUNCIL

During the period of the first Geonee Confederation,
the Colonisation Council was deeply involved in
establishing and monitoring new colonisation efforts.
When the Council was re-established during the
Long Night, its role was been significantly altered to
be responsible for contacting lost Geonee colonies
and bringing them back under the oversight of the
Confederation. With the formation of the Third Imperium
and dissolution of the Confederation, the Council’s
focus was again changed to one of overseeing trade
and diplomacy between Geonee worlds.
The current Colonisation Council has two major
mandates. The first is to maintain contact between
far-flung Geonee colonies and encourage trade and
cooperation between them and the Geonee Cultural
Region. The second is to oversee the governance
of the colony world Tlasov and the technological
exchange between the Geonee and Llyrnians.

The Geonee

FINANCE COUNCIL

102

The Finance Council is responsible for creating and
administering the Geonee Cultural Region’s annual
budget, overseeing expenditure, and distributing funds
to governing councils and agencies. It sets annual tax
requirements for member worlds based on economic
importance from which the annual budget is funded.
It would come as no surprise that the majority of the
funding is directed to the Geonee Self Defence Force
and ADRAT, but the Finance Council also provides
funding to many other institutions, not the least of which
is the Meeralo Council itself. Each annual budget must
be ratified by a simple majority vote of the Meeralo
Council before it can come into effect.

Arguably the most important Geonee institution is the
Gradeea Bresaal Adonee Gaal, or ‘Association for the
Development and Retrieval of Advanced Technology’. To
non-Geonee, the organisation is simply known as ADRAT.
Originally, ADRAT was formed in -175 with a charter to
coordinate technical research and antique technology
retrieval. It was dissolved under Imperial rules but revived
again after the Civil War and given an Imperial charter
to ‘foster technical knowledge and market technical
innovation’. A combination of corporation and altruistic
organisation, ADRAT possesses a network of over 500
offices throughout Imperial territory and beyond, with
more being opened yearly. The ADRAT headquarters and
main office is located on Shiwonee and directly overseen
by the Technological and Meeralo Councils.
An ADRAT office has three departments. The first is the
Technical School and Academy, an institution devoted
to educating technicians and expanding technical
knowledge through research. In any ADRAT technical
college, at least half of the instructors are Geonee.
ADRAT colleges are renowned for the high-quality
training they offer; any graduate will easily find well
paid employment ranging from starship engineer to
computer programmer.
The second department of an ADRAT Office is the
Commercial Service, which aids Geonee traders and
coordinates a commercial network centred on novelties
and high-tech items. The Commercial Service aims to
market advanced technology to appropriate worlds.
The department is known to sponsor in-depth survey
missions to backwater worlds to determine the most
profitable way to market high-tech goods.
The third department is the Retrieval Service, which
concentrates on locating and retrieving technological
items. It frequently sponsors expeditions to remote
worlds in search of technology of lost civilisations, with
a primary focus on Ancients artefacts.
All Ancients artefacts within the Third Imperium belong
to the Imperium by law, and their recovery is normally
undertaken by the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service.
The IISS will often work with the Retrieval Service when
dealing with Ancients sites and artefacts; on Geonee
worlds, these sites are supervised by ADRAT rather
than the IISS. Rumours persist that ADRAT occasionally
defies Imperial law by trying to recover Ancients
technology even when not under IISS contract.

R

