LAW
Geonee laws vary considerable across individual
worlds but those regarding ownership and property
are universally harsh. For Geonee, with their
obsession over ownership, there is nothing more
despicable than a thief. Across all worlds governed
by Geonee, punishments inflicted on those who take
the property of others are among the most severe
found in the Imperium.
In general, punishments towards theft are governed
by what has been stolen. The most lenient punishment
is given to those who steal money. The Geonee
believe Credits can always be earned, so the loss
of them is not as great as the loss of other property.
Therefore, punishment tends towards the perpetrator
recompensing the victim to the amount which was
stolen, a fine issued by the court – which includes court
fees – a public caning, and their identity placed on a
list of offenders. Those who make a second offence are
treated as if they had stolen property.
The punishment issued to those who steal property
is somewhat harsher, with the perpetrator required to
return all property stolen – or a sum of Credits equal
to twice the value if the property cannot be returned
– a fine issued by the courts including court fees,
their right hand removed, and their identity placed on
a property offenders list. Those who make a second
offence are treated as if they had stolen the wife of
another Geonee.
Those found guilty of stealing another Geonee’s wife
are punished the most severely of all. The victim
must be recompensed in Credits to a value decided
by the court – normally twice the amount of the initial
dowry, adjusted for inflation. All property owned by the
perpetrator is seized by the state, and the perpetrator
publicly executed.

Due to cultural prejudices, Geonee favour male
over female offspring. Males are held in high regard
and given preferential treatment. From the Geonee
perspective, a male child adds a productive member
to the family, one who will be able to fend for himself in
time and able to provide care for his parents when they

In the past, this preference has led to periods of legal
infanticide of female offspring, routinely left to succumb
to the elements, especially among poorer members of
society. Naturally, this led to significant discrepancies
in numbers between males and females after several
generations. Fortunately, the Meeralo Council has
outlawed infanticide throughout the Geonee Cultural
Region. While this has caused some reduction in the
practice, it is an open secret that it continues among
the poor where families cannot afford the expense
of a female child. In these areas, it is not unusual for
authorities to turn a blind eye.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE

On most Geonee worlds, clothing is dependent on
gender. Two cultural norms effect fashion; first, the
Geonee have a cultural taboo regarding being seen
with a bare head. Secondly, another taboo prevents
excessive bare skin. It is expected for males be seen
publicly with long sleeves and trousers – only face,
ears, and hands are permitted to be exposed. Females
on traditional worlds are expected to be completely
covered in public, with only their eyes and hands
exposed. In the home, it is permissible for a female’s
face to be seen by her husband and other relatives.
Clothing is made from tough sturdy material which
resists wear and tear.
Males prefer long-sleeved tunics and trousers
over which is worn a vest secured with a broad
belt. Tunics are often decorated with simple bold
geometric shapes. Decorative collars, shoulder
guards, and cuffs are common. Shoes are often
pointed and curled upwards. A helmet-like hat with
long ‘sideburns’ is worn in public, with the height of
the helmet indicating the male’s position in society. In
private, males tend to do away with this and wear a
simple cloth secured with a headband.
Traditionally females wear long-sleeved tunics with
baggy sleeves cuffed tightly at the wrist over loose
baggy pants cuffed tightly at the ankles, often with a long
skirt over the pants. At home or away from prying eyes, it
is permissible for a woman to wear a scarf or veil. Shoes
are similar in design to those worn by males. When in
public, a single flowing over-garment is worn over tunic
and pants, covering them from head to foot, leaving only
the eyes and hands exposed. The over-garment is often

The Geonee

The Geonee also have stringent laws against
premarital sex and adultery, with both parties involved
being punished with public caning. Male Geonee
are also issued a fine to cover court costs and must
compensate the male protector of the female an
additional sum equal to the assumed dowry of the
female, as issued by the court.

grow old. A female child is seen as a responsibility and
financial burden, one which could potentially encumber
the family for the rest of her life. The most a family
could hope for with a female child is to attract a large
dowry when she is married.

103

