T

brightly coloured and decorated with simple geometric
shapes. On more progressive worlds, the over-garment
has been done away with, and women instead wear
scarves or veils in a manner to hide their faces.

The Geonee

Jewellery tends to be simple for both males and
females. Geonee prefer gold over most other precious
metals. Men will often wear one or two bold rings,
whereas women will often wear earrings, multiple
bracelets, necklaces, and rings. Nostril piercings are
not uncommon among women, and nose jewellery can
be quite elaborate, often with fine gold chains which
connect to earrings.

104

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Architecture tends to be big and bold, featuring
minimalist constructions which accentuate bare
building materials over decorative design. The style
commonly makes use of angular geometric shapes
constructed out of concrete, brick, or steel. Buildings
tend to be broad and low, a holdover from styles used
on Shiwonee where construction had to withstand the
effects of frequent quakes. Important buildings such
as museums, libraries, and government buildings are
designed to withstand almost any natural disaster.
Like most other Geonee architecture, homes are
angular and squat in nature, built to survive. Family
housing is traditionally designed to be two separate
wings, joined by a central courtyard.

Geonee are not well known for their art. Artists tend
to be rather conservative in style which rarely finds
appreciation among other races. They rarely create
art which is kept permanently in one place but when
they do, it is large, geometric, and simple. Sculptures
have been described by other races as imposing. Other
visual arts are created to be easily transported, ready
to be picked up and moved in case of emergency.

The front part of the house is known as the ‘public
home’, the abode of a male and any unmarried sons
or relatives who live with him. This is where visitors are
received and males enjoy rest and recreation. Only the
wife of the owner is permitted in this part of the house,
and here she must be covered as if she were in public.
If strangers were to visit, not even the wife would be
found in the public home.

One form of Geonee art which has gained a small
following among other races is their songs and music.
Geonee music can be described as rather dirge-like.
Compositions tend to be long and mournful, featuring
deep sonorous chanting by male Geonee.

The courtyard is often decorated with simple gardens
which include flowering plants and trees. Ponds are
also common. The courtyard is equally enjoyed by both
men and women of the family. Children are allowed to

R

