play together. Trusted male visitors are also permitted
here, but only if any females of the family are suitably
covered and a male family member is present.
A secluded section of the courtyard is kept aside for
the home of the selweeda. This area is normally only
visited by the owner, and kept in a wild state for the
comfort of the Chirper.
Rear of the courtyard is the ‘private home’, where the
women live. The only male permitted in this part of the
house is the husband – as all the women are under his
protection – and immediate male relatives. The women
here are permitted to interact freely, and girls are
educated. Young boys too young for school also reside
in this part of the home with their mother.
Wealthy men can afford large sprawling estates and
impressive homes with many rooms. Poor men can
sometimes only afford a small home with the bare
minimum number of rooms traditionally expected. Such
a small abode is unlikely to show him in any favourable
light to the relatives of a woman who wishes to marry.
Bachelors often dwell in apartments, either singly or
shared, with no room to attract a selweeda and are
therefore not suitable to house women at all.
Due to the volatile nature of Shiwonee’s geology and
climate, settlements tend to be much smaller than
those of other advanced races. All cities, even the
most modern, is designed with rapid and smooth
evacuation in mind. Wide streets and avenues are
the norm, and all buildings are easily accessible.
Vegetation is kept to a bare minimum, found primarily
within private courtyards of homes, where it is closely
maintained and cared for. Where the technology is
available, the Geonee have taken to building grav-cities
which can easily move across the countryside to avoid
environmental disasters and shifting climates.

Geonee enjoy a large variety of recreational activities.
Team sports are very popular, in particular ball sports
such as grav ball. A particular Geonee sport called
khundro keh has gained some popularity in the
Imperium beyond the Geonee Cultural Region.
Kundro keh has three teams of nine players facing
off against each other. Three balls of different colours
are used, and each team must pass their ball through
a ring to score points, while at the same time prevent
the other teams from doing the same. The rules are
somewhat complicated, but teams are permitted to

Geonee also enjoy strategic board games. Women
in particular find these games enjoyable, but it is
very common to find elderly males playing Giroto
in the equivalent of coffee houses. Other common
boardgames played are Solomani chess and
backgammon, and the Vilani shukiimu.
Public performances are openly enjoyed, in particular
a form of Geonee opera called bhegautru. An
amalgamation of various artforms which developed
over a thousand years, bhegautru is a highly stylised
performance using elaborate costume, stylised
movement, and exaggerated vocal performances. A
single bhegautru opera is a drawn-out affair, with a
single performance taking many hours over multiple
days to complete. It is not a form of art commonly
enjoyed by those other than Geonee.
Storytelling is also an ancient Geonee art form,
particularly among women. In the past, there was often
very little for women to do to entertain themselves; to
overcome boredom, storytelling became common, with
themes of tragic love stories and heroic epics.

BUSINESS
Geonee are extremely competent and shrewd
businessmen. Merchants and traders can be found
throughout the Imperium and their nomadic nature has
led to a network of colonies and settlements. These
scattered communities often share information on
commercial opportunities amongst each other, making
them very effective over long distances. Geonee have
not formed any megacorporations, but make up for this
with a myriad of smaller companies which deal in all
manner of products.
They are well known throughout the Imperium as
engineers, technicians and merchants, and have
access to the full range of Imperial technology; most
of their worlds are at or above the Imperial average of
TL12. Shiwonee is one of the handful of Imperial worlds
that boasts a mature TL15. The main handicap Geonee
face in interstellar trade is their semi-nomadic nature,
which limits their ability to build or use large-scale
industrial facilities. Due to this limitation, Geonee do not
produce as many advanced manufactured goods as
their population and Tech Level may suggest.

The Geonee

RECREATION

handle both their own and opposing teams’ balls, and
play consists of a team trying to keep their opponent’s
ball off them while protecting their own. The game is a
full contact sport, and injuries are common, played both
as a casual sport and professionally.

105

