T

THE MILITARY
The military consists of planetary forces which defend
their homeworld, and a united force called the Geonee
Self Defence Force (GSDF). Funding for the GSDF is
provided by each world based on capability. Ground
forces are normally stationed on their own world, but
can be seconded to another if necessary.
Forces are generally trained and equipped at TL15,
making them the equivalent of Imperial troops; they
can be seconded into the Imperial military during war
or to undertake large scale military exercises, but this
is unusual. An exception to this policy occurred early
during the Solomani Rim War. Losing ground to the
Solomani advance, the Imperium was forced draw what
assets it could. The GSDF were some of the first forces
seconded in support of the war, and helped halt the
Solomani from overwhelming the Imperium.
The Geonee do not necessarily glorify war, but certainly
do not shy away from it. They are proud of their military
might. All forces are well trained and ready to move into
action when required. While the size of the GSDF is
dwarfed by the Imperial military, it packs a solid punch.
On the core Geonee worlds, participating in the military
is strictly a male occupation, while on the periphery
of interstellar expansion females may be found in
various military roles. The steadfastness of Geonee
traditionalism dictates that those females who serve in
the armed forces rarely return to the core worlds unless
they adopt traditional roles, if only for the duration of
their visit.

The Geonee

NAVY ORGANISATION

106

Each world in the Geonee Cultural Region has
established a navy for planetary defence and to conduct
customs duties and security patrols. In addition, each
world also has a number of jump-capable vessels. On
other Imperial worlds, these ships would normally come
under the command of their homeworld governments,
though operations of these vessels are subject to
regulations laid down by the Imperial Colonial Office
and can be called into active duty if necessary. In the
Geonee Cultural Region, these ships fall under the
command of the Geonee Self Defence Navy under the
command of the Duke of Shiwonee, with the charter of
defending the region. The distinction must be made here
that the Geonee Self Defence Navy is not the same as,
or part of, the Shiwonee colonial or subsector fleets,
or the Imperial Navy, but may join forces with either on
the orders of the Duke of Shiwonee and approval of the
Meeralo Council.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The navy was founded shortly before the conclusion
of the Imperial Civil War. Many Imperial assets had
been called away, leaving Shiwonee and surrounding
subsectors woefully short of vessels to protect worlds
from piracy. The Meeralo Council authorised the
formation of the Self Defence Navy to protect the
core worlds and surrounding areas. When Arbellatra
took the Imperial Throne as regent, the Geonee Navy
was instrumental in her victory. The fleet not only
provided an impressive deterrent to piracy, but it was
also instrumental in cowing several governments into
accepting the change in Imperial administration. The
regent thanked the Geonee for their support by creating
the Duchy of Shiwonee, with a Geonee as reigning
duke. Control of the fleet was transferred to him and
has remained with reigning duke ever since, with a
mandate to continue its charter of protecting the worlds
of the Geonee Cultural Region.
The Geonee Self Defence Navy follows a similar
structure to the Imperial Navy. The navy comprises
primarily corvettes, destroyers, battle riders and their
battle tenders, with only a handful of capital assets
at its disposal, all obsolete vessels obtained from the
Imperial Navy and refitted to TL15 standard.

NAVY OPERATIONS
The Geonee have a preference for battle riders over
larger jump-capable warships, and naval tactics are
geared towards the use of battle riders overwhelming
enemy forces while smaller assets ensure the safety
of battle tenders and support vessels. Capital assets
are used primarily as command posts and only
brought into combat when defending retreating battle
riders and tenders. Geonee naval tactics also favour
swarming an enemy force with smaller vessels over
large unit engagements.
Joint manoeuvres are routinely undertaken and rotated
between squadrons assigned to different worlds to
ensure all units work seamlessly together. In a similar
fashion, squadrons and fleet components are often
rotated throughout the Geonee Cultural Region.
The vast majority of ships in the navy are constructed
at TL15; Lagna has extensive orbital construction yards
used to construct military assets and maintain vessels
of TL15 manufacture. Surplus vessels obtained from
the Imperial Navy which are below TL15 are upgraded
to fit with the Geonee naval standard.

R

