ARMY ORGANISATION
The Geonee Self Defence Army is a specialist force
drawn from the ranks of armies raised on the worlds
within the Geonee Cultural Region. The Self Defence
Army consists primary of three main arms: the Ground
Force, Support Force, and Space Assault Force. All
equipment used is TL15.
Units from the Self Defence Army are regularly rotated
out with battalions from planetary armies to ensure
uniform training and experience, leading to a large
force which can be drawn upon in times of crisis. Army
units are organised into brigades named after their
planet of origin.
Unlike similar military forces, the Geonee Self Defence
Force does not have a marine branch. Instead, the
Space Assault Force serves a similar duty and while
they are a separate arm, they work very closely with
the navy. The Space Assault Force normally acts as
security on spacecraft navel installations, as well as an
elite military and boarding force. It is also the Duke of
Shiwonee’s personal guard.
An interesting aspect of the Space Assault Force is
their use of Llyrnians as shock troops. Equipped with
TL15 arms and armour, Llyrnian shock troops present a
terrifying front. Llyrnian and Geonee units train together
to build cohesion, but Llyrnian units are normally
commanded by Llyrnian officers, with only the highest
level of the command structure consisting of Geonee
officers. Llyrnian troops are treated as valued equals by
the Geonee, who regard their combat capabilities highly.

ARMY OPERATIONS

The army favours heavy armoured warfare, making
great use of a variety of tanks of their own design.
These range from the relatively small and agile
Gorta light tank to Branak superheavy tanks, which
are essentially enormous mobile weapon platforms.
Supporting the heavy armoured units are ‘light’
armoured units comprising battle dress-clad soldiers.

Space Assault Forces are found primarily on starships,
acting as ship’s security, boarding prevention, and
active boarders. They can be found at key points in
ship access ways, and there are always two marines
stationed on the bridge and in engineering at all
times. Marines on spacecraft fall into the fleet chain of
command, normally with an individual ranked as major
or above answering directly to the captain. Shipboard
troops are issued with weapons which will cause the
least damage to delicate ship infrastructure and, like
Imperial Marines, are always issued with a blade. When
conducting boarding actions, Space Assault Forces are
issued with more powerful weaponry.
The Space Assault Force is also responsible for piloting
fighter craft and other support vehicles, as required.

LANGUAGE
The most widespread Geonee language is Irkonee,
or ‘the language of the old ones’, and is the official
language on all Geonee worlds. The origin of the
language is lost in time, and linguistic studies have
failed to show it has any similarities to other human
languages. Most Geonee only speak Irkonee, and
those who choose to learn other languages typically
learn Galanglic.
Naming conventions are heavily influenced by tradition.
Fathers always name their children with no input from
the mother. The name consists of four parts to identify
an individual. The first part, or name, is a personal
name, given to a child shortly after it is born.
There are no set traditions for what the first name for a
child should be. Some Geonee will name children after
grandparents, whereas others will choose a name they
particularly like or are attached to.
Common Male Names: Breo, Brilee, Bruthwo,
Dasdee, Drald, Duard, Duaree, Dralee, Dreo, Fornee,
Gantee, Garro, Horgee, Logur, Khord, Murgo, Rando,
Ravee, Trand, Tronk, Ular, Weltee

The Geonee

The Geonee Self Defence Army has a reputation for its
use of cutting-edge technology and brute force tactics
backed by electronic expertise. Overall strategy is to
overwhelm opposing forces with superior numbers
and technology on two fronts; physical assaults with
simultaneous cyberattacks. Once ground has been
taken, the army will reinforce its position in preparation
for another advance. Meanwhile, electronic and
technological assets will be appropriated and used to
support advancing troops.

The Geonee have a dislike of jump troops, feeling
the potential attrition rate during jump operations to
be untenable. Instead, they use heavily armed and
armoured dropships supported by escort vessels to
deliver troops to ground theatres.

Common Female Names: Arama, Bara, Brilmara,
Brilmaris, Dasdom, Dortara, Dortis, Ekwah, Gathar,
Kalkis, Maskel, Mura, Murgara, Oondah, Tarea, Urdis,
Ulartis, Urga, Vereen, Wardist, Weltis

107

