GEONEE HISTORY
Although the Geonee are adamant that they are the
Ancients, the most widely accepted idea states they
were brought from Terra by the Ancients approximately
300,000 years ago. Their world, Shiwonee, has an
eccentric orbit and is geologically unstable, with
many active volcanoes and frequent quakes. Some
geological evidence suggests Shiwonee’s instability
is not natural, but perhaps the result of manipulation
during the Final War.

ORIGINS
Archaeological remains strongly suggest the original
humans abandoned on Shiwonee by the Ancients were
only slightly genetically modified, and continued to
evolve naturally. Evidence indicates modern Geonee,
Homo sapiens geonensis, emerged close to -15000.
Several other human subspecies have also been noted,
with various adaptions to Shiwonee’s heavy gravity and
dense atmosphere, but all became extinct around the
same time modern Geonee appeared in the geological
record. Genetic testing has revealed DNA traces of the
extinct species within the Geonee genome, suggesting
significant interbreeding, and the Geonee are the
successful descendants.
Shiwonee’s instability had drastic impacts on Geonee
culture as it developed, particularly on their inclination
toward technology. Early tribal communities were often
affected by natural disasters, a situation which gave
value to technical skills and advantage to tribes which
embraced them. Drastic climate changes added pressure
to maintain a nomadic culture, and it was advantageous
to keep populations focussed in small semi-nomadic
communities which moved when areas were devastated
by natural disasters and climatic vagaries.
Animal husbandry developed around -14500,
allowing larger communities to develop with the
acceleration of technological innovation. The first
small semi-permanent communities were built during
this period. The wheel was soon invented, which led
to many more innovations.
The Geonee developed agriculture around -14000,
primarily as a food source for livestock, but this
soon extended to providing grains and vegetables
for themselves. This milestone discovery led to

the founding, around -13800, of the earliest known
Geonee civilisation, the Pordongee Empire. This was
still a semi-nomadic culture, but ruled by a single
hereditary leader. The gathering of a large group of
like-minded people quickly led to the invention of
writing and mathematics. The earliest written record
discovered in this period, known as the ‘Chronicle of
the Collapse’, is a text which gathers legends from
earlier periods. According to this text, the Geonee
were the children of gods from ‘beyond the stars’ who
were destroyed in a great war.
While the Porgondee Empire was the first nomadic
empire, it was not the last and other empires and
kingdoms arose. Due to their nomadic nature,
civilisations met frequently, and conflict naturally ensued.
The Porgondee Empire eventually collapsed around
-12000, conquered by a smaller but more technologically
advanced civilisation from the north called the Eowaree
Republic. By -12750, the effort to control the vast
territories of the fallen Porgondee Empire caused
the Eowaree Republic to collapse. No evidence of
any further great civilizations has been found in the
archaeological record until -11695 when the earliest
signs of the Dowaree Republic can be found.

THE COLLAPSE

The Dowaree Republic proved to be highly successful,
ultimately conquering and controlling the majority of
the continent and bringing all other civilisations into
their fold. Instead of armed aggression, the Dowaree
Republic made the promise of advanced technology
to nations which joined it. The republic was ruled by
a council of married noble men - traditionally from
both the republic and absorbed civilisation. The
council members held their titles for life and were able
to designate successors. This form of governance
remained largely unchanged, except for the allowance
of any married man to be elected to the council.
Technology continued to rise steadily, peaking at TL3
by -11000. Exploration was conducted across seas,
and colonies were established on other continents. The
Geonee found no more of their kind in the far-off lands
they discovered. The Dowaree Republic become a
world spanning empire and technological advancement
rapidly progressed, by -10800 reaching TL6.

109

