T

In -10700 disaster struck in the form of a winter
caused by the simultaneous eruption of several large
volcanoes. Dust and ash polluted the atmosphere,
blocking solar heat, temperatures plummeted, and acid
rain poisoned the seas and rivers. As crops withered
and livestock starved, the Dowaree Republic collapsed,
plunging the Geonee into a dark age which nearly
drove their species to extinction.
The volcanic winter caused havoc with Shiwonee’s
ecology and biodiversity with thousands of species
of becoming extinct. The Geonee managed to save a
small number from extinction – mainly domesticated
plants and animals – but were too focussed on their
own survival to consider the welfare of wildlife. Still,
some of the more forward thinking Geonee scientists
managed to preserve tissue samples of a significant
number of animal and plant species in well protected
subterranean ‘arks’ in the hopes future Geonee
would find them. Many arks were lost, but some were
eventually rediscovered centuries later and the tissue
samples used to successfully clone preserved species.
Nevertheless, vast numbers of animal and plant
species remained lost and have never been recovered.
By -10500, the effects of the volcanic winter diminished
and survivors started to reconstruct their culture.
Technical knowledge and expertise had been crucial
for their survival during this Collapse, and was even
more important for the reconstruction of civilisation.
Technicians had become some of the most important
members of society, a position they retain today.

Geonee History

THE SPACE ERA

110

The Collapse forced the Geonee to return to small
independent semi-nomadic communities, scratching
out an existence as best they could. As before,
communities joined to pool their resources and
civilisation quickly returned, but individual settlements
maintained independence and identity.
By -9500, the Geonee had regained their previous
technical expertise and advanced their civilisation to
TL5. Despite their independent nature, the Geonee
knew coordination between communities was not only
advantageous but conducive to further advancement.
With this in mind, nomadic communities formed the
Meeralo Council. The Council was only a forum of unity
between communities, with no authority to command,
but as a method of coordinating movement, knowledge,
and communication.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The council proved to be a success, and by -9300
the Geonee had achieved early TL9. The Council
had sponsored a space service which explored the
majority of the Shiwonee system. Colonies had been
established on other planets, and the vast wealth in
the asteroid belts was being exploited. The Meeralo
Council felt it was time for the Geonee to spread
beyond their world and declared the goal to ‘travel
again among the stars’.
In -9270, an expedition made a momentous discovery
in one of the asteroid belts – a derelict Ancients
starship. After 30 years of research, the Geonee were
able to duplicate jump drive technology and built
starships of their own.
The only system within reach of their first ships was visited,
and the most habitable planet found was named Prindee,
which means ‘promise’. Despite the unappealing conditions
on Prindee – low gravity and a tainted atmosphere – the
Geonee established a small colony. Using Prindee as a
waypoint, a small fleet of jump-1 starships explored and
colonised the nearby Stenardee Cluster.
It was during this period when another discovery was
made – the colonists at Lagna uncovered relics of
Ancients origin, including Geonee and Chirper skulls.
This portentous find was taken as evidence finally
proving the interstellar origin of the Geonee.

THE GEONEE EMPIRE

In -9100, after strong debate on the future of offworld
colonies, a member of the Meeralo Council was able
to gain sufficient support to force a more centralised
form of government. He declared the Geonee Empire
and was confirmed as Emperor Bradasee I by the
Council. The new empire placed heavy emphasis on
space exploration, surveying most of the Shiwonee and
Shokee subsectors over the next 20 years.
Most of the newly explored worlds were empty, but a
few held surprises for the Geonee. Among these was
the presence of Chirpers at Theradway, the remains
of an extinct human – but not Geonee – race at Tanny,
and the presence of an intelligent but primitive alien
race at Llyrn. Initial contact with the Llyrnians was
somewhat strained, as they resembled descriptions
of devils from mythology. Fortunately, level heads
prevailed, and the Geonee and Llyrnians formed a
strong friendship.
Based on these finds, the Geonee legends were
correct – the Ancients had formed a vast interstellar
civilisation, and the Geonee where not only their
descendants, but their heirs.

R

