VILANI CONTACT

Around -9000, the Geonee were contacted by scouts of
another starfaring human race – the Vilani. The meeting
came as both a surprise and a shock to both, each
of whom believed itself the only race with interstellar
capability surrounded by a universe of primitives.
Contacts between the Geonee and Vilani were rife
with misunderstanding and suspicion. The Vilani had
legends of fearful god-rulers in the distant past, leading
the Geonee to believe the Vilani had once been slaves
to the Ancients/Geonee civilisation. Once cultural
exchange had advanced somewhat, the Vilani attitude
towards technology and research seemed alien and
foolish to the Geonee and they came to disdain the
Vilani, considering them servile and stagnant.
Even after Vilani contact, the Massilia sector was
still full of empty worlds, so the Geonee continued
their expansion. In -8700, the furthest Geonee
colony was established on Forquee, 13 parsecs
coreward of Shiwonee.
In -8600, Massilia was under the formal supervision of
the Sharurshid. Traders from this bureau discovered
the first Geonee jump drive had been copied from a
derelict of unknown origin. This was a serious blow to
Vilani respect for the Geonee.
The Geonee took offence at the presumption that
the derelict was of unknown origin, arguing it was
an antique ship from the time of the first Geonee
civilisation. Regardless, the issue was not of great
import to the Geonee – they had an interstellar
society of advanced technology, active exploration,
expanding trade, and progressive technical research.
Vilani opinion, no matter how ridiculous and
offensive, was irrelevant.

THE FIRST CONFEDERATION

Finally, in -8300, a colonial revolution raged through
the remote colonies, leading to the execution of the
emperor and many of his closest allies. The empire was
recast as a loose confederation. The Meeralo Council

The Vilani remained neutral during the colonial
revolt, but Sharurshid increased commercial activity
in Massilia, aggressively competing with Geonee
commercial interests. In the following centuries, the
Vilani and Geonee stood as rivals for interstellar
power. Both competed in the exploration and
development of worlds in the Massilia, Zarushagar,
Core, Diaspora, and Delphi sectors. While occasional
military skirmishes erupted, the relationship between
the two starfaring powers remained generally
peaceful, at least on the surface.
The Geonee were on the edge of achieving TL10 by
-7100, though they had yet to develop the jump-2
drive. When the Vilani finally developed it, they kept the
knowledge to themselves, much to the disappointment
of the Geonee. Some Geonee scholars advocate
the idea that undercover Vilani agents prevented
discovery of jump-2 by kidnapping key researchers and
sabotaging critical experiments. Vilani scholars defend
the alternate view that major jump drive achievements
rely on extensive theoretical knowledge, something the
practical orientation of Geonee technicians lacked. In
truth, there is evidence to support both cases, and the
truth may never be uncovered.
By this time, the nomadic communities had settled as
far as the Lishun sector. The Geonee Confederation
maintained only a loose connection with these
settlements, its true territory never encompassing more
than the equivalent of four subsectors in Massilia.

THE GEONEE-VILANI WAR

The Vilani commenced the Consolidation Wars in
-5100, hoping to bring all known Minor Races into a
Vilani-ruled empire. The Geonee Confederation applied
every available resource to resist the Vilani, starting
what became known as the Two Hundred Years War.
The Geonee dealt heavy losses on the Vilani, forcing
them to retreat from the central Massilia subsectors
for decades. Unfortunately, Vilani tactics and the
strategic advantages of jump-2 proved decisive. In
approximately -4900, the Geonee were defeated and
their worlds incorporated into the new Ziru Sirka.
After their victory, Sharurshid systematically attempted
to eradicate the Geonee as a significant influence
in Massilia. Geonee worlds were placed under
military rule, and most Geonee communities were
forcibly deported back to one of their core worlds or
required to meet strict population control measures.

Geonee History

For some time, Geonee emperors had become both
more redolent and corrupt, while at the same time
more tyrannical in their rule. Many colonies were being
heavily taxed, and those which failed to pay taxes were
placed under the authority of a governor who acted
in the emperor’s interest. The populace on the more
remote colonies were forced to live in poverty as most
were ruthlessly taxed and the resources of their worlds
stripped away to support the decadent inner worlds.

continued to administer the ‘original worlds’, while more
distant colonies like Forque and Parahee were given
almost complete autonomy.

111

