T

By around -4100, most of the remote colonies had
been depopulated and their worlds resettled by Vilani.
Despite Vilani attempts, the Geonee continued to
survive on at least 30 worlds in Massilia.
For 200 years, the Geonee were a subject race of
the Ziru Sirka. Military occupation was eventually
lifted, but Geonee worlds continued to be ruled by
Vilani bureaucrats and Law Levels were kept high.
Occasional uprisings erupted, but were quickly and
ruthlessly crushed.

THE INTERSTELLAR WARS

Geonee History

In -2408, the Interstellar Wars plunged the Ziru Sirka
into conflict with a recently contacted human race
from Terra. The Geonee welcomed the Terrans as
liberators and when war approached their worlds, they
rebelled against the Vilani oppressors and allied with
the Terrans. Quickly organised Geonee forces made
up a significant portion of Terran forces in Massilia
during the later wars and Geonee communities
became advance bases and safe ports for Terran
military. During this period, Geonee naval forces used
thousands of Llyrnians as ship’s troops, starting a long
tradition of ‘Llyrnian Devil Marines’ and mercenaries
serving on Geonee spacecraft.

A

V

E

L

L

E

common sight throughout Massilia and beyond. In the
following centuries, significant numbers of Geonee
joined the Second Imperium’s navy, army, and scouts
where they gained a well-deserved reputation for
technical expertise.

THE LONG NIGHT

Despite their best intentions, the management of
the Second Imperium proved to be too much for the
inexperienced Terrans. The year of -1776 is usually
seen as the starting of economic collapse of the Rule
of Man. The Terrans, not able to maintain an empire
of thousands of worlds, were helpless to prevent the
recession which destroyed what they had conquered.
The Long Night soon descended.
The Geonee Autonomous Region was able to maintain
interstellar trade for some centuries into the Long
Night, but its volume steadily declined until individual
worlds were all by isolated. The region had been too
thoroughly integrated into both the Ziru Sirka and
the Second Imperium to be able to construct a viable
interstellar economy alone.

After 200 years of intermittent warfare, the declining
Vilani Empire was conquered by the Terrans. With the
war ended, the Terrans were left in control of a vast
territory they were ill prepared to manage. They soon
came to rely heavily on Geonee advisors in Massilia.

Only three Geonee worlds survived the Long Night,
falling from TL12 to TL4. Once these worlds were at
a locally sustainable Tech Level, progress once again
commenced. The Geonee felt they had again lost the
stars, but were far from discouraged – this was not
the first time. Painfully, over centuries, the Geonee
reconstructed a self-sufficient economy and advanced
technology. By -250, Geonee worlds were able to
launch space expeditions again, quickly followed by
contact between them.

THE RULE OF MAN

THE SECOND CONFEDERATION

The Second Imperium was established shortly after
the end of the Interstellar Wars. In -2200, Hiroshi
Estigarribia granted self-government to the Geonee
worlds and, together with Llyrn and a few nearby
Vilani worlds, the Geonee founded the Geonee
Autonomous Region.
For the Geonee, the early Rule of Man was a time of
jubilation. The Vilani bureaucracy had been eradicated,
and all restrictions on research and technology
imposed abolished. The Rule of Man permitted the
Geonee to travel freely and settle new worlds. The
Terran love of personal independence and initiative fit
perfectly with Geonee values.
By -2000, several Geonee worlds had achieved TL12,
then the cutting edge of technology. Interstellar trade
was booming, and the long Vilani occupation all but
forgotten. Once again, the Geonee had become a

112

R

In -190, a collection of Geonee representatives,
again coordinated by the traditional Meeralo
Council, met at Prindee and declared the Second
Geonee Confederation, renewing their goal to
‘reclaim the stars’.
The Confederation was founded as an agreement
between different dominant classes of the three
Geonee worlds – the high-ranking bureaucrats of
Hiponee, the industrial backers of Lagna, and the
Meeralo Council and nation-state leaders of Shiwonee.
It was natural in the early stages for all these classes
to recognise each other’s authority on equal terms to
establish a system of nobility. The Confederation issued
titles to the most powerful families, creating the nobility
which would continue to rule the Geonee worlds, in one
form or another, to the present day.

R

