LLYRNIANS
The Llyrian are a Minor Race native to the subterranean
environment of a cold satellite orbiting a gas giant in
the Shokee subsector. They play an important role
throughout Massilia. Their homeworld, Llyrn, is a
member of the Duchy of Shiwonee. By tradition, the
Llynians serve as security troops on many Geonee
ships and in return, the Geonee do much of the work of
maintaining a high technology civilisation on Llyrn.
Llyrnians are tunnel dwellers. Their cylindrical bodies are
trilaterally symmetrical, with three locomotive limbs on
the bottom and three manipulative limbs spreading from
the top. The arms contain hearing organs, which are the
Llyrnians’ primary sense. They are able to sense both
vibrations in rock and the faintest sounds transmitted
through thin atmosphere. Three mouths open under the
arms that are used for nutrient consumption. The body
is covered with a tough external coat of organic silicates
and the arms end in tough claws, with three vibratory
membranes positioned on the upper body permitting
a limited sonar capability. The body ends in a structure
that contains three breathing orifices, which also act as
olfactory senses, and a visual band which encircles the
entire structure. Llyrnian vision centres on the infrared
portion of the spectrum.

Claws: Llyrnians have three arms, which end
with heavily clawed three-digit hands. When used
offensively, Lyrian claws deal 3D damage. Furthermore,
unless a device is specifically designed for Llyrians,
they suffer a DM-2 for any checks related to using it.
Echolocation (25m): Llyrnians rudimentary echolocation
sense permits them to navigate their environment,
effectively allowing them to ‘see’ in complete darkness or
through soil to a range of 25 metres.
Enhanced Senses: Llyrnian hearing is acute and
they are able to detect vibrations. Llyrians gain
DM+2 when making Recon checks to hear or sense
vibrations. Llyrnian vision is based on the infrared
spectrum, allowing them to see objects by the heat
emitted. Their optical organs gives 360o vision,
making any attempt to sneak up on them suffer DM-4.

Lyrnians are trisexual, with Delver, Feeder and Warrior
genders. Delvers build and maintain tunnels, Warriors
defend the community and Feeders bear and care for
offspring. Adult Llyrnians vary in size by gender but
most Delvers and Warriors are approximately 1.67
metres long and weigh about 63.5 kilograms.

CREATING LLYRNIAN TRAVELLERS

Llyrnian Travellers have the following modifiers
applied to their characteristics: END+2, INT-2, EDU-2

Armour: Llyrnian all possess a strong outer
carapace made of organic silicates. This gives all
Llyrnians natural Protection +6.
Burrowing: Llyrnian are able to burrow through earth
and rock by rapidly vibrating their arms and claws.
Llyrnians may burrow through earth at a speed of three
metres and through stone at a speed of one metre.
They are unable to burrow through metal ores.

Geonee History

Traits
Llyrnian Travellers all possess the following traits.

113

