T

In -180, the Confederation commenced a programme
to reclaim all former Geonee systems. The empty
worlds of the Stenardee Cluster were surveyed again,
and small colonies established. On these worlds, the
Geonee found remnants of the former inhabitants.
Newly recovered relic technologies from the Rule of
Man were efficiently reverse engineered and replicated,
improving the Geonee’s technological recovery.

SYLEAN CONTACT

In -150, advance scouts from the Sylean Federation
contacted the Geonee. The Syleans were too remote
for trade between the two interstellar polities to
be profitable, but for several decades the Geonee
Confederation was an almost mandatory stop for longranging Sylean scouts and traders.
This era was also a time of internal strife and
conflict on many Geonee worlds. A brutal civil war
on Hiponee ended with the use of nuclear weapons,
nearly exterminating the entire population. The
Confederation made the radical decision to deport
all survivors to the inhospitable world of Dreva,
reserving the once beautiful Hiponee for the nobility.
This reserved status has been maintained ever since
despite the planet having completely recovered from
the effects of the war.

THE THIRD IMPERIUM

Geonee History

In year 0, Grand Duke Cleon Zhunastu of Sylea
transformed the Sylean Federation into the Third
Imperium. Vland and the Vilani core worlds joined
almost immediately.
The Sylean ambassador to the Geonee formally asked
the Confederation to join the Third Imperium too. The
Confederation as a polity refused to join, acquiescing
to opposing voices which refused to exist under the
same rule as Vland. However, as Geonee traders
promulgated through space, many of them accepted
Imperial citizenship as individuals. Geonee colony
worlds outside of the Confederation core also began
to join. As the Imperium made new markets available,
the Geonee profited as much as the Imperium did.
Regardless, this was not sufficient to convince the
Geonee nobility to integrate the Confederation into the
Imperium. Commercial conflicts, espionage, and even
minor skirmishes lasted for decades.
By 80, the Imperium was undertaking the Pacification
Campaigns to unify nearby space under its rule. The
Imperial Navy made a show of force in the Shiwonee

114

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

subsector, ensuing in a few isolated battles before
the Geonee core worlds accepted Imperial rule. In
an obvious insult, the Imperium placed the subsector
capital at Tlasov rather than Shiwonee.
Integration with the Imperium proved difficult. In 120,
a major anti-Imperial insurrection ended with the
establishment of three naval bases at Shiwonee,
Hiponee, and Ashavakuna, and kept under close
scrutiny for centuries. Geonee nobility was not granted
Imperial recognition until 350.

THE IMPERIAL CIVIL WAR
The political situation dramatically altered during the
Imperial Civil War. Kaner, a Geonee admiral, was an
early aspirant to the Imperial Throne and managed for
years to maintain a stronghold around Shiwonee. When
Kaner was killed in battle in 615, Geonee troops and
starships fought against Kaner’s enemies, supporting
several other candidates for the Imperial Throne.
In 622, a Geonee fleet intervened decisively for
the future Empress Arbellatra in the Second Battle
of Zhimaway. The fact that the male-chauvinist
Geonee supported an Empress become something
of a common joke, but Arbellatra repaid their
assistance by creating the Duchy of Shiwonee in
625 and moving the subsector capital to the Geonee
homeworld. Kaner’s young son Brakor was made the
first duke, and become the principal representative
for the eight Geonee ‘core’ worlds. Duke Brakor
was eventually accepted by all Geonee as the
representative of their entire race.
After the Civil War, Geonee integration into Imperial
society proceed much more smoothly. Old colonies
across the whole Imperium soon sent ambassadors to the
duke, and new commercial networks were established.
In 729 the Geonee petitioned Empress Margaret to
re-establish the Geonee Autonomous Region. To
fortify their petition, the Geonee obtained proxies to
vote in their favour at the Imperial Moot, guaranteeing
even if the empress disapproved of the request, she
would have no choice but to grant it. The empress
sent a fleet of warships to Shiwonee which arrived in
736 bearing the empress’s respect for the Geonee
people as members of the Imperium along with a gift
of the Imperial flag. Once the message and gift were
delivered, the fleet promptly jumped out of the system,
denying Shiwonee the millions of Credits which would
have been spent by spacers granted shore leave.
The Geonee understood the thinly veiled threat and
promptly retracted their petition.

R

