RECENT HISTORY

The Geonee worlds steadily grew in prosperity again, to
the extent that Tlasov had become a colony of Shiwonee
by 796 in order to repay huge commercial debt. Geonee
technical skills gained them an edge over surrounding
worlds and earned them a prominent place in Massilia.
In 806, the Duke of Shiwonee, Valreega Neowahsee,
petitioned the Imperial Navy to return an Ancients
starship, the Bradeeva, which was rumoured to be
in their possession, claiming that the vessel was the
property of the Geonee. The Imperial Navy maintained
no such vessel existed, despite Geonee arguments
to the contrary. A special Moot commission was
organised to put an end to the matter, with findings of
the commission declaring the Bradeeva did not indeed
exist. The Geonee maintain the entire incident has
been an Imperial Navy cover-up.
In 990, the Imperium declared war on the Terran
Confederation, starting the Solomani Rim War. The
Imperium fared badly for the first years of the war as
Solomani fleets advanced into Imperial territory. In 992,
Emperor Gavin made a personal request to the Duke of

Shiwonee for the Geonee Self Defence Navy to assist
Imperial forces. The duke agreed and dispatched the
navy with Fleet Admiral Hakur Bokar in command.
The Self Defence Navy proved to be a valuable
addition to Imperial forces, seeing major action along
the front. In 994, the Self Defence Army assisted
in forcing a stalemate between the Solomani and
Imperium as both struggled to rebuild their forces. In
998, the Self Defence Navy drove into the Solomani
Sphere to assist in liberating several worlds from
Solomani control, and in 1002 was an integral
component in the destruction and routing of the Grand
Solomani Fleet at the Battle of Dingir. The Solomani
Rim War concluded in 1002 with the conquest and
occupation of Terra by Imperial forces.
In 1105, the Duchy of Shiwonee, also known as the
Geonee Cultural Region, is composed of ten worlds –
the eight core worlds (Bisk’s Planet, Dreva, Hiponee,
Lagna, Prindee, Rigaal, Shiwonee, and Sternadee),
the Tlasov protectorate, and Llyrn. Duke Karnordo
Neowashee holds the title of Geonee-Irkaveera, and is
viewed not only as the ultimate authority in the duchy,
but representative of all Geonee before the Imperium.

Geonee History
115

