GEONEE TRAVELLERS
Geonee Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers detailed in the Traveller
Core Rulebook. Unless otherwise stated in this chapter,
use all the creation and career rules described there.

GEONEE

Geonee Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR+2, DEX-1, END+2, SOC-1
Geonee Traits
Geonee Travellers all possess the following traits.
Hyper-acclimatisation: Geonee are able to rapidly
acclimatise to new environments. It only takes them
D3 weeks to adapt to new gravities. Geonee who have
the Athletics (strength) skill adapt immediately to high
gravity and those with Athletics (dexterity) skill will
adapt immediately to low gravity.
Poor Senses: Geonee hearing is not as sensitive as those
of other humans. When in Atmosphere 7 or less they suffer
DM-1 to all Recon checks which require hearing.

TITLES

The Geonee, like the Imperium, use noble titles. While
the titles are different, they are comparable to Imperial
titles and rank.
Geonee Noble Titles
Social
Stance

Geonee Title Equivalent Imperial Title

11

Vepaj

Knight

12

Torpak

Baron

13

Angat

Marquis

14

Morov

Count

15

Sarmat

Duke

BACKGROUND SKILLS

In addition to their usual background skills, Geonee also
gain one of Electronics 0, Engineer 0 or Mechanic 0.

118

CAREERS
Geonee Travellers use the careers in the Traveller Core
Rulebook with the following changes:
• Geonee are practical scientists, preferring a
hands-on approach to research than an academic
or studious method. Therefore, they suffer DM-2
when attempting to qualify for the Scholar career.
• The ADRAT career is available to all Geonee
Travellers, who gain DM+2 when attempting to
qualify. Any other Traveller can attempt to join the
ADRAT with the listed qualification roll.
• The Self Defence Army is the Duchy of Shiwonee’s
heavy troops. Each regiment is formed from the
forces of the Geonee homeworlds. They are
armed and armoured in the highest technology
available and specialise in full frontal assaults
and overwhelming tactics. Geonee Travellers can
attempt to enter this career.
• The Geonee Self Defence Navy patrols the
Geonee Cultural Region, protecting the area
against invasion and deterring piracy and other
illegal interstellar operations. Geonee Travellers
can attempt to enter this career.

ROLE PLAYING GEONEE
Almost all Geonee Travellers will be male; females
are kept secluded and protected. A Geonee will have
difficulties dealing with independent females and will
be quite open about them being kept separate for their
own protection. These difficulties will be compounded
by a female in a leadership position.
Married Geonee males will always have their invisible
Chirper companion with them most of the time. The
Geonee will be able to see it but nobody else will. This
will make the Geonee seem to act in a peculiar manner,
staring at or speaking to apparently empty air. On board
a spacecraft, the Geonee Traveller will insist on a large
stateroom for himself, which is shared with the Chirper.
Ownership is a defining trait of all Geonee Travellers,
who clearly mark their belongings and constantly try
to clarify issues of property. ‘Who owns this?’ will be a
frequently asked question.

