Events

2D
2
3

4
5

You embarrass your commanding officer at an important social event. Roll Diplomat 8+. If you
succeed you manage to smooth things over but gain the officer as a Rival. If you fail you cannot
roll for promotion or commission this term and gain the officer as an Enemy.
You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill you
already have.
You are given a special assignment or duty on board ship. Gain DM +1 to any one Benefit roll.

6

You help out a superior officer in an area where their skills are lacking. Gain them as an Ally.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table.

8

Your direct competition in the agency has left themselves open for a career crippling move on your
part. Do it and ruin their life, gaining DM+4 on your next advancement roll and them as an Enemy.
You stumble across a crime on board ship. If you choose to cover up the crime, roll Deception
8+. If you succeed, gain an additional Benefit roll for this term. If you fail, you are thought to be
involved in the crime as well and lose your Benefit roll for this term. If you choose to come clean,
roll Advocate 8+. If you succeed you gain the perpetrator of the crime as an Enemy and DM+4 to
your next advancement roll. If you fail, the criminal gets away and you gain an Enemy. If you roll a
2 on either skill check, you must take the Prisoner career for your next term.
Your commanding officer takes an interest in your career. Either gain Tactics (navel) 1 or DM+4 to
your next advancement roll thanks to their aid.
Through your inaction you cause a collision between two spacecraft. Your next advancement or
commission roll suffers DM-4.
You display heroism in battle saving the whole ship. You automatically pass your next promotion
or commission roll.

9

10
11
12

Mishaps

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

1D
1
2
3

5
6

3

Geonee Travellers

4

MISHAP
Severely injured (this is the same as a result of 2 on the Injury table). Alternatively, roll twice on
the Injury table and take the lower result.
You are placed in frozen watch (cryogenically stored on board ship) and revived improperly.
Reduce STR, DEX or END by -1 due to muscle wastage. You are not ejected from this career.
During a battle, defeat or victory depends on your actions. Make an 8+ roll using a skill that
depends on your branch – Electronics (sensors) or Gunner if you are Command, Mechanic or
Vacc Suit if you are Technical, or Gun Combat if you are Crew. If you fail, the ship suffers severe
damage and you are blamed for the disaster. You are court-martialled and discharged. If you
succeed, your efforts ensure you are honourably discharged but keep your Benefit roll for this
term. If you roll a 2, you must take the Prisoner career on your next term.
You are blamed for an accident which causes the death of several crewmembers. If you were
responsible, then you gain one free roll on the Skills and Training table before you are ejected
from the career as your guilt drives you to excel. If you were not, then gain the officer who blamed
you as an Enemy but keep your Benefit roll for this term.
A failing on your part causes a catastrophic loss in your ship or base. You lose SOC -1. In
addition, the only other survivor becomes your Enemy.
You are wounded in the line of duty. Roll on the Injury table.

125

