HIGH GUARD OF THE GEONEE
Geonee military vessels are built at the shipyards on
Lagna and surplus ships purchased from the Imperium
are refitted to a TL15 standard, sometimes stripping them
back to their bare superstructure and rebuilding. While
this leaves only two planets, Lagna and Tlasov, where
ships can undertake major repairs or maintenance, it does
provide the Geonee Cultural Region with an advanced
fleet in the case of emergencies.
Civilian ships are built at the Imperial average TL12,
so they can be maintained and repaired with greater
convenience no matter where the crew find themselves.
Ships of Geonee manufacture tend to be quite
blocky in appearance, with few if any rounded edges.
Streamlining is not common except on vessels that
routinely traverse atmospheres. Some liken the look of
these vessels as similar to the Geonee themselves –
short, stocky and powerful.
They favour fast vessels with excessive computer
power, so most Geonee craft have the fastest
manoeuvre drives possible installed alongside the
highest bandwidth computers available. While this
makes Geonee ships much more expensive than their
counterparts, the benefit of increased velocity and
additional number of programs run simultaneously
more than compensates.
Decks are somewhat lower than those found on other
ships, more suited to the shorter stature of Geonee.
This provides more space between decks for vessel
infrastructure, large enough for a Geonee or sophont of
similar stature to crawl through comfortably. Staterooms
for single Geonee males are the same as those found on
human vessels but those of a married Geonee must be
large enough to house a Chirper as well. This is normally
two staterooms side-by-side with internal access for both
to share. Married Geonee who have their wife aboard
the ship will have a stateroom set aside for her, normally
with internal connections to his stateroom.
Many larger military vessels are purchased as military
excess or an obsolete purchase. These ships are
intensively refitted and brought up to TL15 as a matter
of course. Because these larger vessels are bought
when they become available, the Geonee generally
only have a small number.

139

