T

Fossil evidence indicates cetacean precursors began
returning to the oceans approximately 50 million
years ago, when much of the earth was covered
in shallow seas. In certain places, such as North
Africa, competition for food on land was intense.
In response to this, the proto-cetaceans began to
forage for food in the ocean. As time passed, natural
selection favoured those which could swim faster
or hold their breath longer. The first true cetacean
appeared approximately 38 million years ago and
the genus Tursiops first appeared in the fossil record
about five million years ago.

GENASSIST
GenAssist was established by the Solomani during
the Interstellar Wars period. With their successes
against the crumbling First Imperium, the Terrans
found themselves acquiring more and more alien
worlds. GenAssist was founded to assist in the
colonisation of new worlds, charging them with the
adaption of native Terran life forms to alien biomes.
After a few initial missteps, one of which almost
destroyed the natural ecology of Ishimshugli in
the Sol subsector, GenAssist began to produce
great breakthroughs in the understanding and
implementation of genetic engineering techniques.

The Dolphins

While scientists at GenAssist were hard at work
making physiological modification to Terran livestock,
agricultural crops and even humans, a splinter
group within the organisation began to look at other
possibilities. Over the next several decades, under
the guidance of Dr Francisco Montes and, later, Dr
Victor Haerinck, modifications were made to the
brains of several Terran life forms such as cetaceans,
pachyderms, ursines and canines. By far, the most
successful improvements were made to various
cetacean species.

156

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Programme focused on them, the Dolphin rapidly
attained true intelligence and, in -1988, just prior to
the collapse of the Rule of Man, a handful of Dolphin
colonies were seeded along the rimward frontiers of
what is now the Solomani Sphere.

PHYSIOLOGY
Dolphins are carbon-based aquatic mammals that
are warm blooded, breathe oxygen, bear live young
and produce milk. They are identified as bilaterally
symmetrical tripeds, with a single tail (fluke) used for
swimming locomotion assisted by two limbs (flippers).
The triped designation is erroneous however, as
Dolphins have a quadruped, land-based, ancestry.
Some Dolphins possess vestigial leg bones near
their hips and, in rare cases, a Dolphin is born with a
second pair of vestigial flippers where the hind legs
would have been. These atavistic remnants are left
intact until the Dolphin is old enough to decide to have
them surgically removed, or kept, as they see fit.
Dolphins have an internal skeleton that is composed
largely of calcium and other trace minerals. The skeleton
helps support the body of a Dolphin in water and assists
in blood cell production, as well as storage for calcium
which is used to activate muscle contraction.
Dolphins, like humans, are air breathers. A
haemoglobin based circulatory system transports
oxygen around the body and they have a single
nostril, known as a blowhole, on the top of the
head, consisting of an opening with a muscular flap.
The flap is closed when the muscles are relaxed
and open when they are contracted. Dolphin are
voluntary breathers and must deliberately open their
blowhole to breath.

Early in their research, they abandoned work
with the species Orinus orca which, although
progressing towards true intelligence very rapidly,
was deemed far too large to be easily transported
off world. Although some fought the decision,
GenAssist directors held fast; the firm’s charter
specified work was to be aimed at the promotion of
offworld colonisation.

Inhaled air is taken into a pair of lungs where
oxygen is extracted and replaced by carbon-dioxide.
Dolphins are able to store twice as much oxygen in
their muscle cells and pancreas in proportion to their
body weight as humans and are able to hold their
breath for 15 minutes at a time, yet in practice many
Dolphins wear air tanks to allow greater duration of
underwater operations. When swimming near the
surface (or when using air tanks) Dolphins breathe
two to six times a minute but after a deep dive or
a period of exertion this may be increased to eight
times a minute.

One-by-one, other programmes fell behind in
progress and were dropped from the project. In the
end, only the species Tursiops truncates was left.
With the full attention of the GenAssist Sophontology

Male Dolphins typically weigh 200–650 kilograms and
measure between 2.75 and 4 metres from the tip of
the rostrum to the end of the powerful tail and flukes.
Females tend to be somewhat smaller on average.

R

