Dolphins bear a strong resemblance to their Turspiop
ancestors, as witnessed by their rostrum, flippers
and tail fluke. Their skin is rubbery to the touch, and
colouration ranges from purple-black, brown or grey
along the dorsal surface, graduating to light-grey or
white on the ventral surface. Albinism occurs rarely.
Several anatomical modifications were made by
GeneAssist during the uplift programme. The brain,
which is 1.5 times the size of a human brain, has
increased folds on the surface and therefore a great
number of neurons. To assist with tool use, the
front flippers have been enhanced with two small
prehensile digits – a thumb and forefinger – drawn
from the phalanges found in the skeleton. Lastly,
their larynx (Dolphins do not have vocal cords) were
manipulated in an attempt to allow them to simulate
human speech. This last modification proved to be
highly successful, enabling Dolphins to speak without
artificial aid with humans and other races.
Dolphins gestate their young, known as calves,
internally, usually for a period of 13 months. Births
normally occur underwater and consist of a single
calf, although twins do occur occasionally. Calves
are born relatively independent, able to swim for
themselves shortly after birth and can vocalise a few
days later. Calves do need assistance to be taken
to the surface of the water for their first breath of air.
Birthing Dolphins normally have the assistance of
one or more midwives.
Calves are born tail first and are about one metre long
and 11–18 kilograms in weight. The mother nurses
the young with milk from her mammary glands and
the calf feeds frequently through the day and night.
Calves continue to suckle for three to four years and
will remain with the mother for a few years after being
weaned. Dolphins are considered adults at the age of
14. Unlike their wild ancestors, the rearing of young is
shared between males and females.

Whiteside Dolphins do not require the additional
space requirements on spacecraft and vehicles as
their bottlenose cousins.

CREATING WHITESIDE DOLPHIN TRAVELLERS

Whiteside Dolphin Travellers have the following
modifiers applied to their characteristics: STR +2,
END +2, SOC -4.
Traits
Whiteside Dolphin Travellers have the same traits as
their bottlenose cousins as detailed on page 168.

CAREERS

Whiteside Dolphins have the same career options as
their bottlenose cousins as detailed on page 168.

Dolphins have a form of sonar known as echolocation,
which locates objects by producing sounds and
listening for echoes. A broadband burst pulse of
clicking sounds is produced in a focused beam in front
of the Dolphin and when the clicking sounds hit an
object in the water, they bounce off and come back to
the Dolphin as echoes. Echolocation tells the Dolphin
the shape, size, speed, distance and location of the
object. They can hear the echoes through their ears
but most sound waves are transmitted to the inner
ear through the lower jaw. As the object of interest
is approached, the echo becomes booming and the
Dolphin adjusts by decreasing the intensity of the
emitted sounds. The interclick interval also decreases
as the Dolphin nears the target, as they wait for each

The Dolphins

Dolphins share similar senses to humans but
differ somewhat; hearing is particularly keen, with
their auditory range extending into the ultrasonic.
There are two small ear openings behind the eyes.
The auditory cortex of the Dolphin brain is highly
developed and the auditory nerve is approximately
twice the diameter of the human analogue, leading
to more rapid sound processing. In addition, the
auditory nerve supply in a Dolphin is three times that
of humans, providing more ultrasonic information to
their central nervous system.

WHITESIDE DOLPHIN

The Whiteside Dolphin (Lagenorhyncus obliquidens
galactus) is not as well-known as its bottlenose
cousin. Whiteside Dolphins are a much younger
race resulting from work completed shortly before
the start of the Solomani Rim War. The intention
behind their creation was to produce a race of
Dolphins that was smaller and easier to transport
than the bottlenose species and was based on the
Pacific Whiteside Dolphin. These Dolphins grow
to a length of 2.1 to 2.4 metres and mass up to
150 kilograms. The two Dolphin races are natural
and enthusiastic allies of each other, frequently
intermingling with each other and will often mate
together, creating infertile hybrid offspring.

157

