T

click’s echo to return before clicking again. Dolphins
are also able to extract shape information, suggesting
they are able to form an ‘echoic image’ or sound
picture of their targets.
Around the blowhole and rostrum is a structure
known as a ‘melon’. A bioacoustic component, the
melon provides a means of focusing sounds used in
echolocation as well as creating a similarity between
the characteristics of its tissue and surrounding water
so acoustic energy can flow out of the head and into
the environment with the least amount of energy loss.
Dolphins have acute vision both in and out of the
water, with eyes on the side of the head. They have
a double split pupil, allowing for similar visual acuity
in air and water, and the eye is adapted to mitigate
varying light intensities. In air, the lens and cornea
of the eye correct for refraction of light caused by
transition from aquatic to aerial vision. Without
this adaptation, Dolphins would be near-sighted
in air. They see somewhat better in the dark than
humans, having a well-developed tapetum lacidum,
which reflects light through the retina a second time
to allow low light vision. Due to this adaptation, a
Dolphin’s eyes glow in the dark.

The Dolphins

Their skin is sensitive to vibrations and concentrated
nerve endings around the eyes, blowhole, genitals
and rostrum lead these areas to be more sensitive
to vibrations than elsewhere on their body. Dolphins
have a limited capacity to taste, only being able
to detect flavours of sweet, bitter, sour and salty.
Additionally, they have no sense of smell.

158

Dolphins are completely aquatic and unable to
survive out of water without artificial assistance.
Their powerful tails are able to propel them at six
kilometres per hour, with burst of speed up to 30
kilometres per hour when needed. They normally
swim at a depth above 30 metres but can dive up
to 300 metres when needed. Dolphins are also
completely immune to caisson disease (the bends), a
constant hazard to human divers.
To protect them from the cold, Dolphins have a thick
layer of fat tissue called blubber. Blubber differs from
other forms of fat in its extra thickness, which provides
an efficient thermal insulator, making it essential
for thermoregulation. Blubber is also richer in blood
vessels than other fatty tissues. Not only does it
protect from cold, it adds to buoyancy. In times of food
shortage, blubber can be metabolised for energy.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

When sleeping, Dolphins are able to keep one
hemisphere of their brain active while the other
hemisphere shuts down. The active hemisphere
allows the Dolphin to surface and breathe while
sleeping. They must sleep for approximately eight
hours every day, either as a single block or broken
into smaller units. When sleeping, Dolphins remain
near the surface and swim slowly, occasionally
closing one eye.

LIFESPAN
Dolphins with access to modern medicine and
living conditions can expect to live for 55 to 65
years. Those living in more primitive areas have a
shorter lifespan due to poor living or environmental
conditions and lack of medical advances. Dolphins
are able to increase their life expectancy with the use
of anagathics and other life extending technologies.

DIET

Dolphins are obligate carnivores, derived from
chaser/carnivore stock. They favour fish as their
primary source of nutrition but also enjoy prawns,
squid, molluscs and cuttlefish, swallowing only the
soft edible parts. Dolphins require approximately
10 kilograms of food a day; more when they are
particularly active. They do not ordinarily cook their
food, preferring to eat it raw but, given opportunity
and tools, Dolphins have been known to prepare
food with various cooking techniques, especially
when serving to other races.
They are able to adapt their diet to the ecosystem
they live in if it has suitable lifeforms. Despite their
carnivorous nature, Dolphins take great joy in
sampling new foods and experiencing new tastes.

SOCIETY

Dolphins are a gregarious and social race, craving the
company of others. They enjoy being among their own
kind and enjoy the company of most other races as well.
Their societies tend towards either communal
anarchy or participatory democracies and on
their own Dolphins tend towards non-hierarchical
structures. The most common form of Dolphin
social structure exists on several tiers, from a large
grouping down to small collections of individuals.
The largest social structure is the clan, which can
consist of several hundred to hundreds of thousands
of Dolphins from many different families. Clans are
headed by elders; the oldest Dolphins in the group.
Elders can be of either gender. The elders are not

R

