exactly the leaders of a particular clan, although their
opinion is respected and sought after, as they are
seen as the wisest of the community.

CLANS AND PODS

pod to another learning what streams of education
interest them. The members of these pods engage
in socialisation and establish a prelude to mating.
When a Dolphin reaches adulthood at approximately
14 years of age, they join a bachelor pod.

Clans are best thought of by humans as a city
or town of Dolphins, consisting of as few as 100
individuals or as many as 100,000. Clans interact
with each other and members of one clan are free
to join another as they choose, much as humans
are able to move between cities or towns. Clans are
associated with a territory such as a bay, estuary or
other coastal feature. The term territory is somewhat
misleading however, as Dolphins in no way feel they
own this area. The term more accurately applies to
the territory as it is able to support the number of
Dolphins living within it and territories can grow and
shrink with the size of the clan inhabiting it.

Bachelor pods consist of groupings of adult male
or female Dolphins and are never of mixed gender.
As adults, Dolphins tend to form close same-sex
partnerships with one or two others, which can
last anywhere from 10 years to a lifetime. These
partnerships traditionally consist of related individuals
but this is far from the rule and bonding can occur for
any number of reasons. Bonded Dolphins will work
together in a variety of activities such as co-operating
in team sports, aiding each other in hunting, joining
the same profession and attracting the attention of a
member of the opposite sex.

Clans are broken up into pods, which normally
consist of two to 30 individuals, although superpods
are not unheard of and can have over 1,000
members. Pods provide various functions within
the clan and fall into four main types; nursery pods
juvenile pods, bachelor pods, and elder pods. These
groupings are open structures and Dolphins will often
freely move between pods in their vicinity with no
permanent ‘membership’ in any. While pods have no
rigid structure, there is a social order amongst the
members; the Dolphin with the highest SOC holding
perceived influence over those with lower SOC.
Nursery pods consist of mothers, their still nursing
calves and pregnant females, with a number of
midwives who assist with the birthing and caring of
young. Mothers and young will remain in the pod until
the calves no longer need to be under direct care,
normally at the age of three or four. Midwives remain
as members until they are too old or infirm to be a
useful member.

Juvenile pods consist of both male and female
Dolphins, along with one or two elders whose
responsibility it is to educate the juveniles. Each
pod provides a different type of education, such as
life basics, academic pursuits, social education and
theological studies. Juveniles will move from one

FAMILY
Dolphins have no concept of marriage or monogamy
but do form close relationships and hold blood
connections in high esteem. They favour polyamorous
bonding, where each individual is free to pursue
other relationships at will. Polyamorous groups, like
pods, are open structures with no clear hierarchy. An
individual may be a member of a single polyamorous
grouping or many, as they choose, making relationship
ties at times difficult to follow. Relationships between
Dolphins may last from a single encounter to several
years, decades or a lifetime.
They have no taboos regarding the gender of mates.
Same sex partnerships are as equally valued as
opposite sex partnerships. In a similar vein, Dolphins
have no taboos regarding platonic or intimate
relationships with other races.
The connection of blood relatives is very important
to Dolphins, especially the connection between
mother and child. A Dolphin learns its first lessons
from its mother; how to communicate, how to behave
in a pod, the fundamental basics of life such as
what is safe to eat, how to hunt, social interaction

The Dolphins

When a calf is weaned and able to fend largely for
itself, roughly at the age of five, it joins a juvenile
pod, although it will frequently return to spend time
with its mother. The amount of time it spends with its
mother declines as the Dolphin gets older.

When Dolphins reach the age of 45 to 50, they join
elder pods. The Dolphins in these pods are seen as
the holders of wisdom and knowledge within a clan.
Elders are responsible for the education of juveniles,
are the keepers of tradition and, when necessary,
the adjudicators of justice. While not the leaders of
a clan by any stretch of the imagination, elders are
highly respected individuals and their opinions are
not lightly ignored.

159

