T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

OUTCASTS
and dangers to be wary of. The bond between a
mother and child holds the highest social value.
This relationship is of such importance that if a
young Dolphin loses its mother, they will be adopted
by another female Dolphin to continue raising and
educating. Once a Dolphin is weaned and begins to
mix with others, the bond with their mother weakens
but still remains an important aspect of their lives.

Despite the importance of family and social
interaction holds for Dolphins, there are individuals
referred to as outcasts. These Dolphins belong to no
clan or pod, and tend to live alone, although some
will gather into a pod with other outcasts. Dolphins
become outcasts for a number of reasons, the
primary of which is being banished from their clan for
a crime and are shunned by other Dolphins.

Dolphins also form relationships with their father and
siblings, although this is less close. Fathers leave
the majority of the raising of young to the mother and
other members of a nursery pod until the calf joins
a juvenile pod. At this point, a father becomes more
involved in the life of the calf, providing guidance,
advice and further education.

Dolphins may also become outcasts if they lose all
members of their family and clan, either to disease or
some other disaster. These sad individuals will often
seek to join another clan as soon as possible who
welcome these outcasts into their number quickly
but Dolphins suffer greatly at the loss of their family
and clan, and some choose never to join another
clan again. They are seen as objects of pity by their
fellows but their choice to remain alone is respected.
However, outcasts can be viewed with some
suspicion by other Dolphins until the reason for their
banishment is known.

The relationship with grandparents, aunts, uncles
and cousins are not as deep as those with the
immediate family but still close compared to those
of other races. Grandparents are often held in some
awe and respect by their decedents.

The Dolphins

Dolphin families, by their very nature, are complex
and intertwined. While Dolphins have no trouble
understanding these ties, other races tend to find it
hard to untangle the web of interconnectivity between
Dolphins and their relatives.

160

It is not unusual for outcasts to seek the family and
social interaction they crave within another race. In
these cases, Dolphins will treat the other members
of the group as they would their own family or pod
and, in this way, Dolphins are able to undertake roles
and careers without the Dolphin companionship they
would otherwise not be able to.

R

