JOCULARITY

Dolphin predilection to jocularity is a usual part of
their psychology. They are a fun-loving race, prone
to seeing the humorous side to most situations. Most
Dolphins find no point in taking everything seriously,
often to the point where other races find their mindset distracting and annoying.
They are consummate jokers, both practical and
intellectual. Nothing can make a Dolphin laugh more
than a good practical joke; while never intentionally
harmful, practical jokes are intended to embarrass
the target in a good natured and friendly fashion.
Competitions where Dolphins try to outdo each other
with more and more elaborate practical jokes are
not uncommon. Unfortunately, Dolphins are just as
happy to inflict their practical jokes upon other races,
some of whom may not take them in the light-hearted
manner they were intended.
Intellectual jokes told by Dolphins tend to fall flat
amongst other races, who can find them rather droll.
Dolphins, on the other hand, find them outrageously
funny. Dolphins do not like long drawn out jokes, as
they find them boring.

GREGARIOUSNESS
Dolphins are a naturally gregarious race. They
find comfort and pleasure in the company of other
Dolphins and also enjoy the company of many other
races but are particularly fond of humans. It is not
unusual to find Dolphins forming strong bonds with
humans and wanting to spend as much time with
them as possible. These relations can also move
into the realm of intimacy and while Dolphins are not
averse to forming strong intimate bonds with other
humans, the majority of humans find this distasteful.

When Dolphins are forced to be alone, they often
fall into a depressive state and lone Dolphins can
be miserable in the extreme. They can refuse to eat
and neglect their personal hygiene and, in the worst
cases, they can lose their grip on sanity leading to
hallucinations, schizophrenia and psychotic episodes.

SUCCOURING

Dolphins have a natural instinctive reflex to go to
the aid of injured or endangered cetaceans. Known
as ‘rescue fever’ or ‘succour syndrome’, this natural
reaction to the distress calls of another Dolphin can
be wholly overpowering. Although a Dolphin may be
able to wilfully escape the effects of a distress call, it
is not easy. When a Dolphin succumbs to this, they
effectively revert to a pre-sentient state and race to
the side of the cetacean in need.
If a Dolphin manages to avoid the syndrome, they may
act in a normal manner and take whatever steps they
wish to secure the rescue of their endangered peer (or
abandon them, if it seems the best thing to do).

BELIEFS
Dolphins believe in total equality – everything is
shared with all and each individual is entitled to the
full benefits of all the clan’s assets. For example,
Dolphins are confused and even appalled at the
importance other races place on ownership. Even
the concept of becoming attached to an object often
eludes them. If a Dolphin needs a tool or item and it
is not being used by another, they will quite happily
take it and return it when finished.
This attitude can cause some conflict with other
races who see the Dolphins’ lackadaisical approach
as akin to stealing. For example, if a Dolphin sees a
piece of unattended jewellery they like and wish to
wear it to an event, they will take it for their own use
and return it afterwards. If they are then confronted
with the apparent ‘theft’, they will openly admit to
their action, not really understanding what all the
fuss is about.

The Dolphins

This sense of gregariousness extends to the Dolphin
love of play, which is an important part of their
social interaction. Play helps form bonds with other
Dolphins and this extends to other races; nothing
will encourage friendship with a Dolphin more than
an invitation to play a game. They find joy in games
as simple as catch or tag, to impromptu sessions of
‘keeping off’, all the way to complex team sports and
tabletop games. Game playing is an important form
of stress release for Dolphins.

Despite this general gregariousness, there are
several races that Dolphins do not like to associate
with. They generally detest Gurungan – and the
feeling is mutual – and do not get on at all well with
Luriani where, again, this dislike is reciprocated.
Dolphins tend to avoid and distrust Orca.

161

