T

Dolphins who spend time among races who value
material ownership learn to understand that others
do not have the same concepts of equality and will at
least ask to borrow an item before taking it. Dolphins
often see this a game where they must play ‘fitting in’.
Even so, it is not unusual for a Dolphin to combine
personal generosity with a rather cavalier attitude
towards their friends and co-worker’s property.
The concept of money and trade is also completely
foreign to Dolphins. They just do not understand
the point of giving or taking something completely
useless (such as money) in exchange for a desired
item or service. Although some Dolphins who
spend a lot of time among other races develop an
understanding of the value money holds for others,
to them Credits have no value whatsoever.
The concept of owning land is particularly confusing
to Dolphins. As a marine lifeform, the medium in
which they live is constantly moving, so they do
not understand how anyone can own anything so
transitory. They point out that ‘the sea is always in
motion, so how can you claim a portion of it?’ In the
same way, Dolphins will point out the land is also
in motion (although far more slowly). Dolphin have
a concept of territory, although this is based on
resource management of an area and has nothing to
do with possession or ownership.

The Dolphins

Dolphins well integrated into other societies still only
have a theoretical understanding of concepts like
‘ownership’ and ‘borders’. Trying to explain human
views on such concepts is both irritating (to human
and Dolphin alike) and futile.

162

They believe strongly in balancing their lives with
the environment and the health of the environment
reflects on the health of those living within it.
Dolphins support the preservation, restoration
and improvement of the natural environment and
in control of pollution and protection of plant and
animal diversity. They will only take from nature
what they need to survive and will not place undue
stress on the environment with overpopulation. As a
result of these beliefs, Dolphins are quite active in
environmental movements.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Dolphins greatly respect their elders and hold them
in particularly high esteem. This extends to a deep
respect for previous generations and belief that those
who live the longest have the greatest knowledge
and wisdom. Elders hold an important place in
Dolphin clans. Seen as keepers of knowledge
and tradition, they are consulted before any major
decision is made. Elders are protected and cared
for and if an elder is unable to fend for themselves,
a younger relative will happily provide for them. In
the rare case an elder has no relatives, an unrelated
Dolphin will take them into their care. In some clans,
this elder veneration has developed into a religion of
ancestor worship.
Related to their veneration of elders, Dolphins within
the Solomani Sphere tend to be very loyal to the
Solomani government. The reason for their loyalty
has very little to do with political philosophies, as
Dolphin psychology is radically different from their
human patrons. Rather, each and every Dolphin is
acutely aware that the Solomani gave them the gift
of sophoncy and feel indebted to them for this. The
Solomani have not discouraged this way of thinking;
they have fostered it.
Above all else, Dolphins value individuality and
freedom as a universal right – all races should be
free to follow their own wants, needs, desires and
dreams as they see fit. They also believe individuality
comes with certain rights and responsibilities to other
individuals and the group as a whole. A Dolphin will
not attempt to deny another of its right to follow its
dreams but that right should not have a negative
impact on another Dolphin, pod or clan. A Dolphin
is accountable for their actions and decisions, and
should be subject to due procedures if those acts
harm another. A Dolphin deprived of individuality or
freedom will fall into a state of depression, eventually
losing interest in eating and then die.
Like others, Dolphins follow a number of different
religions, both of their own creation and those of
other races. Dolphins do not deny the right of any
other Dolphin to follow any religion they choose but
those religious beliefs are not free from examination
and critical review. Debates between Dolphins of
different faiths can be lively affairs and sometimes
Dolphins may be swayed from their religious beliefs
by the convictions of a solid argument.

R

