Eee-Squee-Kikik: This religion ties in very closely
with the Dolphin sense of environmentalism. Similar
to animism, it professes both animate and inanimate
objects have associated spirits, acknowledged to
garner favour or appease them if slighted. Clans will
have a number of spiritual leaders who are called
shamans, normally elders who keep the traditions
and act as the main intermediary between the spirit
world and the material. A shaman will be consulted
in matters of spirituality or asked to intercede with
the spirits for an individual or group. Despite having
spiritual leaders, any Dolphin may address the spirits
as needed.
Eee-Squee-Kikik has no central organisation or
hierarchy. Each clan follows the religion according to
its own tradition and as suggested by its shaman.
The followers of Eee-Squee-Kikik tend to favour
particular spirits over others, feeling certain spirits
have greater impact on their world. Spirits such
as Ocean, Sun, Moon and Earth are particularly
revered. Ocean and Moon are seen as intertwined
spirits, siblings or lovers who are forever separated
and yet forever struggling to come together again.
Earth is revered as the spirit on which Ocean is
supported, working together to give life and support
to all other spirits, yet can also be a dangerous spirit,
trapping Dolphins that have beached themselves
and leave them at the mercy of Sun. Sun is seen
as a dangerous spirit, jealous of Ocean and Moon’s
relationship and forever keeping them apart. Sun
is also seen as a retribution spirit, the one which
dries out the skin of Dolphins who have been
beached, killing them slowly and painfully. The exact
relationships between these spirits varies between
groups of Dolphin and differences are common.

Those who follow the precepts of Eee-Squee-Kikik
do not believe in the taking of life except for the
purposes of food. The taking of the life of another
sophont, or killing for sport, is anathema to them.
Carboneism: This belief, which is more philosophical
ethos than religion, is most prevalent in the Solomani
Confederation and previous areas controlled by the
Solomani. It was founded on the premise that the

Carboneism expands on the loyalty many Dolphins
feel towards Solomani – they feel they owe the
humans an invaluable debt, one they must repay with
loyalty and obedience. Some followers of Carbonism
are incredibly zealous in their beliefs and quite
militant in their outlook (which is unusual for the
normally playful and freedom loving Dolphins). They
believe quiet strongly that those Dolphins who refuse
to follow the way of Carboneism are traitors to their
creators and to the Dolphin race as a whole.
Dolphin Carboneists are often recruited by the
Solomani military as ocean combat specialists.
SolSec also drafts them to be planted into Dolphin
clans outside of the Confederation to gather
sympathisers to the Solomani Cause and sow unrest
among Dolphins loyal to the Imperium.
While they rarely come in contact with each other,
Carboneists have a particular hatred for Dolphins
uplifted by the Ancients, seeing them as a heresy to
their creators. They view them as inferior in every
way – little better than trained animals – to the
Dolphins created by Carbone and Haerinck. It is not
unusual for Carboneists to act aggressively and even
violently towards these Dolphins.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE
Dolphins have no taboos regarding nudity and feel
no need to wear clothing except for those items
which provide protection. In fact, clothing may prove
dangerous in a watery environment, potentially
slowing down and entangling Dolphins, reducing their
agility and posing a drowning risk. When necessary,
Dolphins don harnesses and belts to facilitate the
carrying of tools and equipment, preferring to wear
those that are both utilitarian and attractive. Intricate
designs or the addition of small trinkets are common.
Dolphins are very aware of their appearance and if
they are going to wear anything, they may as well
look good wearing it.

The Dolphins

The spirits of animals are also acknowledged. Before
a hunt, spirits are asked to be generous and to
attract the prey they watch over. After the hunt the
spirit is thanked for the lives taken. Likewise, the
spirits of animals that hunt or injure Dolphins are also
acknowledged and appeased to avoid confrontation.

Solomani genetic scientist, Dr Craig Carbone was
divinely inspired to uplift Dolphins and Dr Victor
Haerinck was his disciple, chosen to continue
the work. They believe it is their manifest destiny
to assist the humans of Terra in colonising the
stars. While they do not believe that Carbone and
Haerink are gods in the metaphysical sense, they
do view them as the literal creators of their race.
Other Solomani are venerated and seen as guides,
mentors and guardians of the Dolphin race.

163

