T

Dolphins also have no use for artificial construction,
feeling much more comfortable in the open ocean
than confined in a restricted area. While they
generally have no personal use for buildings,
Dolphins do recognise that equipment, machinery
and other types of technology may require the
protection of a structure. Dolphin architecture tends
to be rather utilitarian, conforming to its intended use
with no embellishments or decoration at all. When at
all possible, Dolphins prefer to use natural materials
in their construction, even foregoing anything artificial
for natural caves and grottos. All architecture takes
into account the effect it has on the environment
and great care is taken not to cause undue or
unnecessary disturbance in the natural world.

The Dolphins

Sculpture is a highly valued art form amongst
Dolphins and sculptors are held in a particularly
respected light. Dolphin sculpture is generally
not representational but rather abstract in nature,
designed to illicit an emotional response and typified
by organically flowing shapes with intricate detail.
Special attention is made to create sculptures that
can be viewed with closer inspection via sonar;
internal cavities, textures invisible to the naked eye
and hollows which cause sonic resonances are seen
as the highest manifestation of the art. To the human
eye, Dolphin sculpture is rather ordinary but they do
not have the senses to fully appreciate the art form.
Regardless, some collectors will pay handsomely for
pieces created by a famous Dolphin sculptor.

164

Dolphins have a particular love for theatre, both of
their own and other races' creation. Dolphin theatre
tends to be of the comedic variety and will have a
moral lesson intertwined into the play. Traditionally
a protagonist is featured suffering a number of
humorous misadventures as they ignore tradition,
go against nature or ignore the wise words of elders.
Dolphins do not remain quiet to enjoy plays but like
to join in, catcalling and heckling the performers, all
in good humour. While humans may find these plays
somewhat contrived and naive, Dolphins take great
pride in them.
They have also developed an impressive
appreciation for the works of the Terran playwright,
William Shakespeare, finding great joy in the
perceived follies of the protagonists. All of
Shakespeare’s works have been translated into
the Dolphin language and renditions of these plays
draw huge audiences of both Dolphin and human
alike, especially those put on by renowned troupes.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Dolphins also enjoy watching human performances
of Shakespeare’s classics but other viewers and
the actors themselves can find the Dolphin viewing
experience to be rather distracting.
Just as Dolphins enjoy comedy in their theatre, they
enjoy almost all comedy in general, regardless of
its source. They tend to prefer stand-up or slapstick
style humour; stand-up for its apparent spontaneity
and slapstick for its exaggerated physical activity and
inept use of props.
Song and poetry hold a significant place in Dolphin
culture. Dolphins sing for comfort, joy, to pass on
information, record their history, entreat spirits
to provide a good hunt, thank their prey for their
sacrifice and communicate over long distances,
among other things. All Dolphins compose their own
songs and poems, although some are better at it
than others. Song holds a much deeper place in the
Dolphin heart than just a source of entertainment but
as the very core of their existence and who they are
as a people.
Dolphins have only maintained their history orally,
passed on through the use of both poetry and song.
Important lessons are taught to young Dolphins
through song to assist them in memorising the
teachings. All Dolphin parents are expected to pass
on the most common ‘learning songs’ to their young
but a dedicated profession has arisen to maintain the
oral history and traditions of the Dolphin race; the
Historian-poet.

HISTORIAN-POETS

Dolphins have a long and rich history, which is
recorded in song and is remarkable as it records
events that occurred before Dolphins achieved full
sophoncy. Human historians have made incredible
discoveries through the study of these history songs;
there is evidence that Dolphin historical records
extend back as far as the Ancients' first visit to Terra
but songs from that far back are so intertwined with
mythology and folklore that it is difficult to be certain.
Historian-poets hold a unique position within clans.
Seen as an intermediary between the elders and the
rest of the population, their knowledge is sought after
to assist with decision making. As keepers of the
past, Historian-poets are able to pass on precedence
on previous issues to aid in decision making. Even
elders will seek their guidance on important issues
before giving advice.

R

