The training of these remarkable individuals
begins at an early age when a talent for singing
and memory is noted. Once identified, the young
Dolphin is assigned to a Historian-poet master who
undertakes their assessment and training for the role
as a candidate. Learning the traditional basics of
composition, melody and song, the apprentice is also
taught the basics of poetry and how, for Dolphins,
history, song and poetry are intertwined and shape
their outlook and guides everyday lives.
If the Historian-poet master feels the candidate has
potential, they will take the young Dolphin as an
apprentice and their training begins in earnest. The
apprentice’s education continues until the teacher has
imparted all their knowledge, taking approximately
eight years. Once their training is complete, the
Dolphin is considered a Historian-poet in their own
right. At this point, they are expected to travel from
clan-to-clan, teaching history and philosophy to
juvenile Dolphins and lending knowledge and wisdom
to clans and pods as needed.
It is not unusual for Historian-poets to travel to clans
on different worlds. This allows them to learn the
local history of other clans and to incorporate it into
the overall record of the Dolphin race.
When the Historian-poet approaches elderhood,
they end their travelling and join an elder pod. They
are held in high esteem by the other members of
the pod, as well as the rest of the clan. Their advice
carries the weight of vast knowledge and wisdom,
and is rarely ignored.
Elder Historian-poets will often act as spokespersons
for their clan. They are consulted in matters of tradition
and asked to provide opinion in matters of dispute.

Dolphins do not have anything approaching businesses
or corporations amongst themselves. As mentioned,
they have no appreciation for money or trade and some
barely comprehend the concept at all.
Despite this, some clans have had to create
businesses to deal with the needs of other races.
These are rather small within the interstellar scale
and normally serve a single function centred on
services rather than a manufacturing process.
Services such as aquafarming, aquatic research,
environmental consultation and aquatic search and
rescue are common.
Dolphin businesses bear no real resemblance to similar
human endeavours, as they have no internal hierarchy
or structure humans understand. Employees tend to
come and go as they will and business management
seems to be handled as a consensus rather than being
directed. Money made through business belongs to the
clan as a whole and is spent on items the clan requires
but cannot manufacture. Despite these obvious
differences, Dolphin businesses tend to do well where
they are established.
Dolphins employ members of other races – normally
humans but exceptions occur – to oversee their
businesses’ financial concerns, especially on worlds
where the maintaining of monetary accounts are
mandated by law. Their lack of understanding of
money and accounting makes it difficult for them
to perform those tasks for themselves, exposing
Dolphin businesses to risk of exploitation. Dolphins
generally do not understand why they would be taken
advantage of in this manner but are not naive and
will vet individuals (or businesses) they hire to take
on the financial concerns of their business closely.
Dolphins often become employees of businesses
owned by other races, where they are valued for their
expertise and skills, tending to work for businesses
that have similar values to their own regarding
preservation of the environment. Many businesses
hire Dolphins to provide environmental advice, such
as mining companies seeking to avoid environmental
damage or to repair environmental damage that has
accrued through past practices.

The Dolphins

Outsiders frequently consider elder Historian-poets
to be the leaders of their clans. This is an erroneous
assumption, as Dolphins have no hierarchical
structure within their society. While Historian-poets
hold a position of great respect, they have no
authority over other Dolphins. This said, it is a most
unwise Dolphin who ignores the advice of these
highly experienced elders.

BUSINESS

165

