T

They frequently find employment in industries which
operate in zero gravity, being uniquely adapted to
operating in zero-g due to their marine evolution
and take to working in these environments much
easier than most other races. Both the Imperium and
Solomani Confederation make good use of this in
their orbital ship yards.

THE MILITARY

Dolphins generally do not have an organised military,
as they do not normally fight amongst themselves.
They are aware there can be occasions when an
organised military response might be necessary, such
as in the case of an offworld invasion or the defence
of territory from dangerous lifeforms. For these cases,
Dolphins have a semi-military organisation they call
Guardians. This organisation is loose in formation,
with no formal rank structure, and only drawn together
when needed. Joining the Guardians is voluntary
but there is rarely a shortage of individuals willing to
defend their clan if called upon.

The Dolphins

The Guardians are essentially a combined aquatic
army, police and emergency response force but
with far less perceived discipline than similar
organisations of other races. Like other Dolphin
groupings, the Guardians operate on group
consensus, taking the advice of elder Guardians in
their unit before coming to a democratic decision.
Other races find this military style to be highly
inefficient but are surprised to find how well it works
for Dolphins.

166

Individual Guardians are trained extensively in
unarmed combat, the use of both melee and ranged
weapons, armour and, in some cases, battle dress.
Experienced Guardians train new recruits, while
elder Guardians assign Dolphins to units and
brigades. Assignments can be very fluid in nature
and can change frequently. Guardians train regularly
to maintain their skills and learn new techniques.
Dolphins who live within the Solomani Confederation,
and particularly those clans which follow
Carboneism, tend to be far more militant in nature
when compared to other Dolphins. They routinely
have fully organised armies, with all the rank and
discipline that comes with it. These units train with
human counterparts and exchange programmes
exist within military services where Dolphins serve
directly in a human unit and humans within Dolphin

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

units for a period of time. Dolphins can be found
within the Solomani military forces and the Solomani
Confederation has a series of medals designed
specifically for Dolphin servicemen.

LANGUAGE AND NAMING
Dolphins use a language known as Delphinese
among themselves, composed of various clicks,
rasps, chirps, burps, creaks, hoots and whistles. In
many cases the sounds pass far beyond the range
of human hearing into the ultrasonic. While some
humans are able to learn a rudimentary version of
this language, it is virtually impossible for a human to
speak fluently or understand.
Due to the spread of Dolphins across Charted
Space, Delphinese has evolved into a multitude of
dialects. It can take a Dolphin some time to learn
a new dialect and errors can be made during the
adjustment process but Dolphins rarely find these
to be offensive. In fact, errors are often seen as
humorous, providing countless hours of amusement
at the expense of the equally amused Dolphin who
makes them.
For communication with humans and other races,
most Dolphins speak ordinary, if somewhat flowery,
Anglic. Their voices are high-pitched and somewhat
child-like and they tend to repeat clicking sounds
(like ‘k’ or ‘t’) several times, making it sound like
stuttering, and sounds made for letter ‘w’ tend to turn
into high-pitched whistles or squeals.
Dolphins are given a name at birth by their mother,
traditionally a derivative of the name the mother was
given when she was born. This tradition enables
Dolphins to trace their genealogy back for hundreds
of generations. Birth names have no direct Anglic
translation, as they originate from when Dolphins
were pre-sentient. This birth name is used until a
Dolphin reaches adulthood at 14, at which point they
take on their adult name.
Adult names are either chosen by the Dolphin
themselves or given to them by close companions.
The adult name is always descriptive in nature,
identifying something particular to the Dolphin
in question. A name can refer to a Dolphin’s
colouration, habits or preferences, such as Dawn
Wave Jumper, Dances Under Moon, Skin Like
Glacier, Scar Under Eye and Laughs at Elders.

R

