DOLPHIN TRAVELLERS
DOLPHIN

CAREERS

Dolphin Traits
Dolphin Travellers all possess the following traits.

Dolphin who live closely with humans in societies at
TL7+ have the same access to university and academy
pre-career options. Dolphin always apply DM-1 when
attempting to enter university but suffer no DM modifier
when attempting to enter a Military Academy.

Dolphin Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR+4, END+2, SOC-4

Cold Resistance: Dolphins possess a thick covering of
blubber, which keeps them warm, providing DM+4 to all
checks made to resist the effects of low temperatures.
Deep Diver (300m): Dolphins can dive deep
underwater, to a depth of 300 metres without risk and
can hold their breath for up to 15 minutes.
Echolocation (100m): Dolphins use a highly sensitive
echolocation sense to navigate their environment,
effectively allowing them to ‘see’ underwater or in
complete darkness to a range of 100 metres.
Succour Syndrome: When Dolphins hear the distress
calls of other cetaceans they risk suffering from succour
syndrome. If they fail a Very Difficult (12+) Gun Combat or
Melee check (1D seconds, INT) both their INT and EDU
temporarily drop to 0 and they must immediately swim as
fast as possible to the side of the distressed cetacean.
Swimmer (12m): Dolphins are superb swimmers and
can move through water at a speed of 12 metres.

STARTING AGE
Dolphins mature and age more rapidly than humans.
Travellers begin their careers at 12 years of age. Untrained
and inexperienced, they embark on a career to gain new
skills and experience, and begin aging at the end of their
second term at 20. Each term lasts for four years.

TITLES
Dolphins do not use the titles of nobility as humans of
high SOC do. Within Dolphin society, SOC is an indicator
of how well liked and respected an individual is. Dolphins
can, and have been, assigned noble titles by humans
but among other Dolphins these titles mean nothing.

168

Dolphin careers, in general, are used as described in the
Traveller Core Rulebook. However, there are exceptions:
• There are two Dolphin-specific careers: Dolphin Citizen
and Dolphin Military. A Dolphin may attempt to qualify
for careers described in the Traveller Core Rulebook
but only after first acquiring the Vacc Suit skill.
• Dolphin Rogues are usually the last survivors of a
family that has been wiped out, an outcast, or are
acting as terrorists defending the heritage of their
Solomani ‘creators’ behind Imperial lines.
• Dolphins cannot become Drifters. Instead, the
nomad assignment for Dolphin Civilian replaces
Drifter for Dolphins. A Dolphin may automatically
enlist as a Dolphin Civilian nomad.
• Dolphins are unable to become Merchants
since the concept of trade and commerce is
unfathomable to them or Nobles since they believe
in the absolute equality of all.
• Dolphins enjoy the freedom of space and are
naturally curious, finding careers as Scholars and
Scouts to be exceptionally rewarding. Dolphins gain
DM+1 when attempting to enlist in these careers.

PSIONICS
Dolphins are as capable as humans in psychic
potential, although it is rarely tested for. A Dolphin that
has psionic potential is able to pursue the Psion career
(see page 204 of the Traveller Core Rule Book).

DOLPHIN SKILLS

A Dolphin with a waldo set can perform just about any
skill a human can. Those without are limited to skills
that do not require hands or legs. A few other special
considerations apply to Dolphins.

