Athletics: Dolphins use Athletics (dexterity) only for
high jumping or long jumping if it begins in the water.
Sprinting means fast swimming. Use the normal rules
except that a sprinting Dolphin can cover 72 + twice their
Effect metres with every check. A Dolphin may not climb.
Athletics (dexterity) is also used for catching things with
a Dolphin’s teeth or rostum. Use Athletics (endurance)
for long distance swimming and Athletics (strength) for
tasks such as swatting with a tail or ramming with a
rostrum, although actual attacks use Melee (natural).
Vacc Suit: This is a very common skill among civilised
Dolphins even if they do not serve in space. Dolphins may
use their Vacc Suit skill to offset any negative DM inflicted
by waldos but may not increase the DM above +0.

UNAVAILABLE SKILLS
Dolphin Travellers have some limitations on the skills
they receive during their careers and may not gain the
Broker or Gambler skills. If one of these skills is rolled,
roll for another. If the second result is the same, the roll
is lost and the career process continues as normal.

MUSTERING OUT

When rolling on the Benefits table, Referees must
keep in mind that items received do not belong to
the specific Traveller but rather are considered to
be in their possession. Although the difference may
seem trivial, it is actually very important. Consider the
following: A Dolphin Traveller receives a starship as a
mustering out benefit and, after using it for some time,
the Traveller encounters a pod of Dolphins, which have
been stranded on a world and now lack the resources
to return to their home. It would not be out of character
for the Dolphin Traveller to turn the ship over to them if
the pods’ need for it seems greater than their own.
Any Benefit rolls from careers other than Dolphin
Citizen or Dolphin Military that result in Armour or
Weapon may instead be taken as a travel suit (without
waldo). Additional results of the same type can be
taken as a waldo or additional travel suits. If a Dolphin
already possessing a travel suit and waldo receives an
Armour or Weapon result, they may instead raise their
Vacc Suit skill by one level.
When rolling on a Cash Benefits table from careers
other than Dolphin Citizen or Dolphin Military, all results
are reduced to 10% of their Credit value to represent
the total lack of interest in, or understanding of, money
on the part of Dolphin Travellers.
Benefit rolls resulting in a Waldo, Walker Suit or Travel
Suit grant these items to a maximum of TL12.

SOLOMANI CAREERS

When in careers other than Dolphin Civilian
and Dolphin Military, within the Solomani
Confederation Dolphins suffer the same penalties
as non-Solomani humans (see page 125 of Aliens
of Charted Space Volume 2).

Dolphin Travellers

A Solomani Dolphin can join the Home Guard
or become a SolSec Monitor. One of the more
confusing jobs in Solomani Security is making
sense of reports provided to the agency by
Dolphin monitors watching other Dolphins but
SolSec finds them useful for keeping track of
human maritime activities.

169

