GENASSIST

GenAssist, a Solomani corporation responsible for
the uplifting of many Terran species, was responsible
for the modern Orca, a programme designed to
produce companions suitable to assist the Solomani
in the colonisation of alien worlds. An offshoot of
the same project that eventually resulted in the
sophont Dolphin, the Orca project was begun on
Terra but cancelled only eight years later. Officially,
the cancellation of the project was due to the cost of
the programme and size of the animal, which would
cause problems when transporting them off planet.
Rumours persist however, that fear of such a large
creature capable of independent thought and action
was the real reason for the cancellation.
The project’s lead scientist, Rene Hodge, successfully
convinced a number of dedicated followers on
Sufren (Diaspora sector) to fund the relocation of
the project to that planet’s unusually (and some say
Ancients-manufactured) Terran-like biosphere. There,
the project not only thrived but proved to be highly
successful and its progeny became a distinctive part
of Sufren’s culture and heritage.

PHYSIOLOGY

below and darker from above this colouring allows
the Orca to blend into the ocean environment and
camouflage itself from prey.
Several anatomical modifications were made by
GeneAssist during the Orca uplift programme. The
brain has increased folds on the surface, while their
larynx were manipulated in an attempt to allow them
to simulate human speech.
Orca gestate their young, known as calves, internally,
for a period of 17 months. Births normally occur
underwater and always consist of single young.
Calves are born relatively dependent, able to swim
for themselves shortly after birth and can vocalise a
few days later. They need assistance to be taken to
the surface of the water for their first breath of air.
Calves are born tail first, are about 2.8 metre long
and 120–160 kilograms in weight. For the first few
days after birth, the dorsal fin and flukes are flexible
and pliable but gradually stiffen. The light areas of
the young Orca tend to be creamy white to pale
yellow or tan rather than white. This usually turns
completely white by the end of the first year, although
it is not rare for some Orca to retain the yellowing
colour into adulthood.
The mother nurses the young and the calf feeds
frequently through day and night. Calves continue
to suckle for three to four years and will remain with
the mother for a few more years after being weaned.
Orca are considered adults at the age of 20 and
the rearing and educating of young is performed
exclusively by females.

Orca have a single blowhole and powerful upper
and lower jaws lined on each side with sharp teeth.
Their teeth are curved slightly inward to allow them
to capture live marine prey, are very strong and the
jaws exert a powerful grip; the upper teeth fall into
the gaps between the lower teeth when the mouth
is closed. The firm middle and back teeth hold prey
in place, while the front teeth are inclined slightly
forward and outward to protect them from powerful
jerking movements.

Orca generally take four short breaths, called ‘blows’,
10 to 30 seconds apart and then dive for 15 minutes.
They normally dive to a depth of 100 metres but
are capable of diving down as deep as 260 metres
without ill effect. Unlike humans, Orca do not breathe
automatically and must have conscious control or
risk drowning. While resting, all members of a pod
take approximately the same number of breaths
before diving. The blows of mother and young are
tightly linked and continue in respiratory synchrony
throughout their lives.

Orca exhibit dramatic colouring, with glossy black
upper surfaces and brilliant white patches on the
belly and above and behind the eyes. Behind the
dorsal fin, they have a dark grey ‘saddle patch’
across the back, although some Orca have pale
grey to nearly white backs. By appearing lighter from

Eyesight is equally effective in or out of water. In
fact, Orca use their eyesight when ‘spyhopping’, a
technique used when the Orca bobs its head above
the surface of the water to spot boats, navigate
by shoreline objects and locate terrestrial prey.
However, underwater visibility is often less than 50

The Orca

Orca share much of the same anatomy and physiology
as Dolphins. Orca are carbon-based aquatic mammals,
warm blooded, breathe oxygen, bear live young
and produce milk. They are identified as bilaterally
symmetrical tripeds, with two limbs (flippers) used for
swimming locomotion assisted by a single tail (fluke).
The triped designation is erroneous however, as Orca
have a quadruped, land-based, ancestry.

197

