T

The Orca

metres and at night is negligible. Orca have evolved
to take advantage of the superiority of sound, which
travels four times faster in water than in air and is
equally effective day or night.

A

V

E

L

L

E

can increase their life expectancy with the use of
anagathics. Those living in more primitive areas have
a shorter lifespan due to poor living or environmental
conditions and lack of medical advances.

DIET

Orca possess sophisticated underwater sonar, which
enables them to perceive their surroundings. Their
nasal passages produce a series of extremely fast,
high frequency sounds, which bounce off objects
and give important clues about their distance, speed,
shape, texture and composition. Orca are even able
to ‘zoom in’ on objects by varying the pitch, loudness,
duration, angle and breadth of this sonar and then
use this information to navigate or locate and chase
prey. In addition, Orca use sound to communicate
with each other and keep pods together. Different
individuals and pods produce distinctively different
acoustic signals.

Orca are exclusively carnivore, derived from chaser/
carnivore apex predator stock. They favour fish
as their primary source of nutrition but also enjoy
seals, whales and even dolphins, and happily adapt
to consume food native to the planet they live on,
if compatible. Orca typically require 1% to 3.5% of
their body weight in food daily but growing calves eat
much more – up to 10% of the body weight during
growing periods. Orca eat their food raw and will
not entertain the idea of eating cooked food. They
also prefer their food alive at point of consumption,
something most humans and other sophonts find
highly disturbing.

The circulatory system utilises many arteries and
veins in the flippers, flukes and dorsal fin, which
allow it to transfer heat from the body in warm
conditions or conserve heat as they swim in icy seas.
Its sheer size also helps conserve heat as its surface
area to volume ratio is lower than other mammals. A
high metabolic rate increases heat production while a
coating of blubber reduces heat loss, streamlines its
body to conserve energy and serves as food storage.

SOCIETY

An Orca’s skin is extremely sensitive to touch
and plays an important role in maintaining social
connectivity. Orca are extremely sensual creatures
and often engage in touching behaviour. Mothers and
calves frolic and caress each other regularly from birth
and adult males wrestle and roll with each other.

Such societies tend towards charismatic
dictatorships. The most common form of Orca
social structure exists on several tiers, from a large
grouping down to small collections of individuals.

Male Orca typically weigh five or six tons and measure six
to eight metres in length. Females tend to be somewhat
smaller, weighing three or four tons and measuring
between five and seven metres in length. Orca also
display a measure of sexual dimorphism, with the dorsal
fin of males being significantly larger than those of
females, growing up to 1.8 metres and resembling tall
elongated isosceles triangles in appearance. Female
dorsal fins reach a height of one metre at most and are
more curved than those of the male.

LIFESPAN
Orca with access to modern medicine and living
conditions can expect to live for 65 to 95 years, with
females generally living longer than males; both

198

R

Orca are a highly social race with complex and
intricate societies. They enjoy the company of their
own race very much but tend to hold themselves
aloof from others. It is unusual to find an Orca who
lives apart from their own people and much more
common to find an individual of a differing race
working within Orca society.

The smallest social structure is the family group. This
consists of the eldest female – known as a Matriarch
– and her sons and daughters, and the descendants
of her daughters. As females can reach an age of
95, family groups can have many generations living
together and number up to 40 individuals, although
average 5–10 individuals. Family groups are highly
stable with individuals separating only for a few
hours at a time to hunt or mate.
When the Matriarch of a family group dies, her eldest
daughter assumes her mantle. Any other daughters
split away and become Matriarchs of their own family
groups, along with their sons, daughters and daughters’
offspring. The sons of the deceased Matriarch will form a
bachelor family group with their brothers.

R

