Orca are highly social and suffer deep depression
when isolated from their own kind. For this reason,
Orca have a very strong concept of family. As
Orca trace their heritage through the matrilineal
line, their society is always matriarchal.

whole before the needs of herself or those of her
own family group. Philosopher-elders are required
to know the familial relationships held among the
clans and also expected to attend to matters that
effect the entire community and act accordingly in
the community’s best interest. In matters of dispute
which cannot be satisfactorily resolved by clan
Matriarchs, they are expected to make a final ruling
on the matter.

The oldest female in any group of Orca takes up
the role of Matriarch, considered the final authority
in the group. It is she who will make judgements
on what is best for the group, impart punishments
when necessary and make rulings in areas of
dispute among those under her care. When
groups come together, Matriarchs will naturally
accede leadership to the oldest female in the
larger group who is related to her.

The Great Pod is the last and largest Orca social
structure, though in reality is just a term used as a
catch-all for all the Orca on a planet. The Great Pod
is led by a council of the Philosopher-elders of each
community; traditionally work together for the benefit
of every Orca on the planet but just like any other
political structure, rivalries and enmities can grow
and factions develop, putting Philosopher-elders at
odds with each other.

ORCA MATRIARCHS

FAMILY
Those Orca who do not have any living direct relatives
will often form a close bond with humans or another
sophont. While this is not ideal, it does relieve some of
the loneliness felt by an isolated individual.
The next largest social structure is the pod,
consisting of two to five family groups closely related
along the maternal line. Unlike family groups, pods
may separate from each other for weeks or months
at a time. When family groups come together in their
pod, the eldest Matriarch from the component family
groups is recognised as the Pod Matriarch.
As a matter of propriety and tradition, male Orca will
not mate with any female from their own pod.

The next largest social structure is the community,
a group of clans which regularly co-mingle. Unlike
clans however, communities do not necessarily share
the same Delphenese dialect. A community is led by
the eldest Matriarch from among its clans, referred to
as the Philosopher-elder of her community.
Philosopher-elders have great responsibilities. They
hold unquestioned authority within their community
and are expected to think of the community as a

Once copulation has concluded the male will leave
and return to his own family group. Male Orca show
a small amount of interest in their offspring but never
become involved in their raising or education.
Orca form the strongest relationships with the other
Orca in their own family group and most especially
towards their mother. Unlike many sophonts, an Orca
will always remain with their mother with whom they
the strongest relationships.
Within the family group, all education is provided
by females, normally mother to calf but sometimes
another close female relative will provide education
in areas the mother cannot. When education is
sought that cannot be provided by the females
in a family group, it will be provided by members
of the larger pod. On the occasion when an Orca
seeks education from an outside facility, such
as a university or college, the entire family will
remain within close range of the Orca undertaking
instruction. Many education facilities on planets
with large Orca populations will have a submersed
campus facility where Orca undergo training.

The Orca

Clans, the next largest social structure, are
composed of pods which speak the same dialect of
Delphenese and possess common but older maternal
heritage. Clan territories overlap, mingling pods from
different clans. Like pods, clans are led by the eldest
Matriarch amongst all the pods.

Orca have no concept of marriage or monogamy.
Males openly approach females they are attracted
to and interested in mating with. Permission is
neither needed nor sought from a Matriarch but
is considered good form if the male makes his
intentions known. In cases of unwanted attention,
a female Orca will seek the assistance of her
immediate family or ask for her Matriarch to intercede
on her behalf.

199

