T

TOUCH
Touch is extremely important for Orca. Mother and calf
will touch each other frequently with a brush of the flipper
or trunk, strengthening their bond. This preference for
frequent physical contact does not diminish as the calf
ages and continues throughout adulthood.

V

E

L

L

E

This psychology governs how Orca act and react.
They will focus on the present, dealing with issues as
they arise and experience the world as it is presented
to them with no presupposition or expectations on
what will occur or transpire. Orca will act when action
is necessary and not act when it is not necessary.
They view a problem as not being a problem until it
becomes a problem.
This leads others to view Orca as at best single
minded and at worst frustratingly stubborn, which is
both accurate and inaccurate at the same time. Orca
will focus on the task at hand and not be dissuaded
until the task is complete, be that greeting another,
hunting for food, studying a subject or dispatching
an enemy. What is certain is an Orca will do what it
perceives they need to be doing at a particular time
and stop when it no longer needs to be done.

Orca also enjoy wrestling each other. While it is
normally a male activity, females are not actively
discouraged from the sport. Wrestling among clans
is performed for fun and bonding, and can continue
on into adulthood. It has been developed into a sport,
enjoyed not only by Orca but by many other sophonts
as well. A match between well-known wrestlers will
draw Orca from across a world’s oceans and be
televised to surface dwellers. On planets where Orca
have a significant population, wrestling matches
are a huge tourist attraction with arenas built to
accommodate non-aquatic spectators comfortably.

While Orca are extremely friendly towards each other –
they not only desire but require each other’s company
– the same cannot be said of their relationship
towards other sophonts. Orca are less friendly than
Dolphins and prefer to live apart from humans and
other sophonts. They hold no special awe or gratitude
to humans for uplifting them, stating solemnly their
uplifting occurred when and how it should.

Orca psychology lends itself to seeing things as they are
in the here and now. Many have acquainted this outlook
as being very similar to the ancient Terran philosophy of
Zen Buddhism, although for Orca it is not a philosophy
but their psychology. Orca focus on the present, dealing
with situations and problems as they arise.

The Orca

A

When seeing each other after a period of separation,
Orca perform a complex greeting ceremony by
swimming closely together and rubbing their bodies
against each other. Each family group’s ceremony
differs slightly from those of other families, serving to
help Orca identify from which group another comes
from and how closely or distantly related they are.
The length and complexity of this ceremony depends
on how long the Orca have been apart, lasting from a
few minutes to many hours after a long separation.

ZEN

200

R

Given a problem, they will focus on studying
it from various angles, putting aside their own
preconceptions and prejudices to find the true
cause or specificity of the issue. They tend to see
everything as interconnected into a single whole
– the parts and the whole are in an inseparable
relationship with everything else with no priority over
the visible or invisible, or the explicit over the implicit.

ALOOFNESS

They are not unwilling to cooperate with land
dwelling creatures but neither do they have any great
interest in developing relations with other beings.
They get along with other aquatic sophonts as well
as with any other; in other words, they are distantly
courteous but have no natural antipathy either. Their
relationship with Luriani and Gurungan are the same
as that of Dolphins.
Orca who do work closely with other beings treat
the relationship in a professional manner, keeping
non-Orca at ‘arms’ length’, so to speak. This is not to
say their professional relationship suffers due to their
standoffish nature, only that Orca will condescend to
operate as closely with another sophont as their task
or occupation requires and no closer.
Despite their aloofness, Orca see themselves as
Solomani, although the majority of them do not hold
to the Solomani schema of supremacy. Orca view of
their Solomani heritage purely as the origin of their
species and a planet of origin in no way indicates an
individuals’ worth or ability.

R

