HOMEBODIES

Orca have not spread far beyond the seas of Sufren,
primarily due to their size and the expense of
transporting them. Generally, this does not bother
most Orca as they rarely seem interested in going
anywhere else. There are two major exceptions to
this mind frame.
Occasionally the Philosopher-elders of the community
will decide that the population on a planet has
reached its limit and it is time for a Grand Migration.
The clans are asked for volunteers who are prepared
to colonise a new world. This is a huge undertaking
often requiring millions of Credits for the necessary
transport to be chartered. The migrating clan will often
be required to borrow money from financial institutions
to meet their needs so potential colony sites are
closely evaluated for valuable resources to pay back
the debt before a destination is chosen.

The other exception is Orca who have lost their
mother and have no other maternal ancestor or
descendant to attach themselves to. With nothing
to hold them back, these Orca will often attempt to
leave their home planet to ‘see the galaxy’, adopting
a career that allows them to travel in the company of
other sophonts.

SUCCOURING

Orca have a natural instinctive reflex to go to the aid
of injured or endangered Orca. Known as ‘rescue
fever’ or ‘succour syndrome’, this natural reaction
to distress calls of another Orca can be wholly
overpowering. Although an Orca may be able to
wilfully escape the effects of a distress call, it is not
easy. When an Orca succumbs to this syndrome,
they effectively revert to a pre-sentient state and race
to the side of the Orca in need.
If an Orca manages to avoid the syndrome, they may
act in a normal manner and take whatever steps they
wish to secure the rescue of their endangered peer (or
abandon them, if it seems the best thing to do).

ORCA WORLDS

Apart from Sufren, there are only a few other
worlds that have significant Orca populations.
New Challenge (the Glimmerdrift Reaches) has
a population of Orca numbering in the many
thousands – the exact number is unknown and
Orca are somewhat reluctant to make any attempt
at a census easy.
Orcana (Gateway sector) also has a significant
population of Orca.

Some other worlds have small Orca populations
but not significant enough to mention here.

Like Dolphins, the concept of money and trade
is completely foreign to Orca. They just do not
understand the point of giving or taking something
completely useless (such as money) in exchange
for a desired item or service. Trade with Orca can
be exceedingly frustrating, for both trader and Orca
alike. For this reason, many Orca who trade with
other races use a third party to represent them,
usually a company or organisation that conducts
trade on the Orca’s behalf and manages their
financial affairs.
Much like their smaller cousins, Orca are also strong
advocates for environmental preservation. They
believe all things have a natural cycle, which should
be interfered with as little as possible. For example, it
is perfectly normal and acceptable for a kelp field to
die back due to shift in water temperature, overgrazing
of herbivores or through natural accident. On the other
hand, if the death of the kelp field is due to outside
interference, such as pollution or artificial climate
change, all measures should be taken to prevent
it. For this reason, Orca are careful not to overtax
hunting grounds by overuse, moving from one to
another regularly and changing what they prey on to
allow the environment to achieve balance.

The Orca

Terra (the Solomani Rim), the home of the presophont orca has seen a return of uplifted Orca.
Modern Orca see their pre-sophont cousins only
as animals, a link to their past. They find they
have a kinship with them, similar to the kinship
Terran humans have with domesticated canines.
Orca even train pre-sophont orca to assist in
aquafarming. Their close visual similarity does,
however, confuse others somewhat, which perturb
modern Orca, feeling the differences between the
two species is patently obvious.

BELIEFS

201

