T

Orca believe very strongly in chaos theory – that
everything in the environment is connected to
everything else and even the smallest change in
some far flung corner of the world could result in an
overwhelming outcome elsewhere in the biosphere.
Some Orca have taken this belief and made it their
career, becoming well respected chaos theorists
within academic circles.
On worlds where Orca have a significant population,
they are strong advocates for sustainable living,
using resources wisely and not putting overwhelming
stress on any environment. They support and,
where they have the ability, demand that ecological,
environment and climatic studies be made before
any disturbance to the natural environment is
commenced. Unlike Dolphins, who may well form
very vocal protests and demonstrations, Orca work
more subtly. Where they have access to or influence
on politics, they will quietly make their opinions
known, use manipulation to achieve their goals and
make it very clear that they are not pleased with the
lack of care being shown to the environment.

The Orca

As apex predators, Orca enjoy hunting for both food
and sport. When hunting for food, Orca hunt as a
team, constantly communicating with each other
with updates of their location and position. Quarry
is harried and herded until a telling blow can be
made and the Orca begin to feast. Eating for Orca
is neither delicate nor fancy – they will tear into their
prey with gusto, often while it is still alive, in search
of the tastiest morsels, before consuming lesser
favoured portions. Watching Orca feed is not for the
faint of heart.
If hunting for sport, the hunt is a competition to
prove bravery, skill and quick thinking. The Orca will
pursue their quarry in a group but instead of acting
cooperatively they actively compete with each other
to be the first to reach the target. Quarry in sport
hunting is not killed. Instead the object is to touch the
target with the front of the mouth. While Orca prefer
using a live animal for sport hunting, they will use a
robotic lure if they must. Sport hunting is an exciting
exercise and has developed a significant following on
worlds that have Orca populations.
Orca hold great reverence for their ancestors, in
particular female ancestors. They use a number of
rituals to venerate ancestors, the number of which and
how and when they are performed depending on the
particular beliefs of the pod, clan and community the

202

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Orca belongs to. Most commonly, Orca will enter a
mourning period on the death of a female – normally
lasting one year, which represents the period an Orca
calf is completely reliant on the care of their mother.
During this time, an Orca will eat sparingly, spend time
in quiet contemplation of their departed love one and
sing mournful songs espousing the sadness they feel
at their relative’s loss.
Orca have no burial rituals as such. When one of
their number dies, the corpse is protected from
scavengers for a period of time to give surviving
descendants a chance to offer their final farewells.
Once this period has passed, the body is pushed into
the deepest part of the ocean within the community’s
territory and then allowed to sink and disappear into
the depths where it will provide food for scavengers
and return to the environment.
The name of the deceased Orca is added to
the family group’s mourning song, forever
commemorating the family line and venerating each
ancestor when the song is sung.
After the body has been disposed of, families will
honour the deceased by dedicating hunts to them.
Once a kill is made, the tastiest and desired portion,
like the liver, is not eaten but allowed to sink to the
ocean floor as an offering for the ancestor.
The death of a Matriarch or Philosopher-elder will bring
mourners from far and wide to pay their respects.
In contrast, Orca do not mourn the death of a male in
any significant manner. A mother will mourn the loss
of her son or grandson but his name is not added
to the mourning songs. It is the responsibility of a
deceased male Orca’s female relatives to dispose of
the body.
Orca follow no one single religious belief. Some
Orca follow religions naturally developed from the
veneration of their ancestors into a fully realised
system of worship. This religion's name is impossible
for non-cetaceans to pronounce but it is most closely
translated as ‘the Way’. Orca believe that after death,
the spirit or soul of female Orca continue to watch
over their descendants and bring fortune or misfortune
to the family based on how they are honoured.
Other Orca have found Terran religions of Asian
origin, such as Daoism and Buddhism, to fit with their
particular worldview and psychology.

R

