The Way: Traditionally, Orca do not keep physical
records of their history or culture but commit it to
memory and pass it on through song to younger
generations. The Way, therefore, has developed
regional variations as it has been passed on down
the generations, the differences becoming more
pronounced among Orca populations, which live
on different planets. The exact details of the Way
may vary from Orca-to-Orca, and community-tocommunity, but differing denominations share many
common beliefs.
The Way teaches that Orca did not develop a spirit
until the race had achieved true sophoncy, which
they call the Great Awakening. The Great Awakening
not only provided self-consciousness to Orca but
the ability to live on in spirit form after death. For
Orca, an immortal spirit is something only sophonts
possess and is what sets them apart from animals.
They believe the spirits of their dead join the spirits
of all other sophonts in a spirit world that is both
contiguous yet slightly apart from the world of the
living. Spirits are able to affect the world of the
living but only those among the living who know the
correct rituals can have a direct effect on the spirit
world and its denizens. As this belief grew, Orca
developed rituals to ease the spirits of the ancestors
into the spirit world and appease those who become
displeased with the living.
The spirits of happy female Orca watch over their
descendants and bring good fortune, while male
Orca spirits merge with the spirit world. Some
denominations believe male Orca eventually
reincarnate into a new body and others believe all
Orca can enjoy the benefits of reincarnation. Some
denominations do not believe in reincarnation at all
and that sophonts only have one chance at life in the
world of the living.

Orca not able to receive final observances from their
decedents and loved ones are believed to become
vengeful spirits. Males haunt the area of their death,
unable to disperse into the spiritual life force of the
planet, bringing poor hunting and a pall upon the
area. Females plague their family groups, instilling
bad luck, ill health and poor fertility until the proper
observances are made.

The role of the Spirit Singer is traditionally taken on
by female Orca beyond the age of calf bearing or
otherwise infertile. In some communities, however,
restrictions are relaxed and both male and female
Orca of varying fertility and ageundertake the role.

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE
Orca have no taboos regarding nudity and therefore
are quite happy to be unclothed. Indeed, considering
their aquatic environment, clothing of any sort could
prove to be at best an inconvenience and at worst
a danger if caught on something and becoming
a drowning hazard. When necessary, Orca wear
a harness to which tools and equipment can be
easily attached if necessary. Unlike Dolphins, Orca
harnesses are just another utilitarian tool to be
used and find the Dolphin predilection of decorating
harnesses puzzling.
Ritual scarification among Orca has become part of
their cultural identity. Both males and females are
equally likely to be scarred, although not all Orca
are scarred. Among some Orca, scarring holds
spiritual significance, granting to them the abilities of
the animal or concept the scar represents. To bear
a scar, an Orca must prove themselves a valuable
member of the family group, pod and clan. Those
who have shown bravery in the face of danger, led
great hunts or solved problems that affect a great
proportion of the clan can be granted the honour of
bearing a scar.
Scarring is often performed by Spirit Singers in
clans which have them and in those which do not
by an Orca who has undergone years of training
and study for the task. Scar design and patterns
can represent an animal, event or abstract concept
varying according to region, clan or pod. Designs are
traditionally geometric in nature, incorporating swirls
curves and waves, with in-fill designs consisting of
solid blocks or patterns consisting of lines of varying
thickness. Scar placement also has significant
meaning for the Orca, with the traditional locations
for tattoos being the dorsal fin, flippers, fluke, brow
and chin.

The Orca

Displeased spirits can cause misfortune in various
ways, the vast majority of which involves misfortune
of one sort or another. Specific events can also lead
to restless spirits who must be appeased before they
stop inflicting misfortune on the living.

The rituals required by the Way are overseen by an
Orca known as a Spirit Singer. A Spirit Singer has
been taught rituals by another, appeasing restless
spirits, guiding spirits who have not passed on to
the spirit world and placating angry ancestors. The
majority of the rituals consist of song and stylised
movement, which may need to be performed multiple
times to appease particularly mad spirits.

203

