T

The Orca

Scars are made with the use of a sharpened tool
normally made from whale or dolphin bone. In
religious clans, the Spirit Singer will bless the scarring
tool, invite the spirits of the ancestors to ritual and
then hold the tool in their mouth to cut deeply into the
skin of the recipient. The process is slow and often
painful but enduring the ordeal of receiving a tattoo is
seen as a rite of passage. Clans which do not have
Spirit Singers hold no such ceremony.

204

Singing and song composition is a highly developed
art among Orca, used both recreationally and
religiously. As their history is also oral, Orca use
song to impart information. The style of songs vary
from mournful funeral dirges to rousing hunting
chants to solemn lessons. Orca are happy to sing
alone or in groups, and songs have a habit of
growing and evolving as time goes by. As education
is solely in the province of female Orca, they begin
singing teaching songs to their calves at a very early
age, although only female calves are taught the
funereal dirges in preparation for when they lead
their own family group.
Orca have little need for permanent structures
and therefore have no architectural style. When a
permanent structure is required to store belongings
or act as a habitat for non-aquatic colleagues, they
prefer it to be made by others, with due care being
made not to disturb the environment unnecessarily.
Their only caveat is for the structures to have ample
room for Orca use, if necessary.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

BUSINESS
Orca do not understand the abstract concept of money
but do understand the concept of performing service
or providing goods for service or goods in return.
In this manner, they understand their businesses
generate income but they cannot quite grasp the
concept of money having any worth or use. This has
led to Orca, much like Dolphins, using a third-party to
oversee the financial aspect of their businesses.
Orca businesses are operated by family groups and
pods, with the largest businesses run by clans. The
structure of the business follows Orca tradition of
deferring to the oldest direct female relative. This
creates an organisation where employees work,
live and play together. Due to their psychology,
Orca see no difference between work and play, and
likewise see no difference between family member
and workmate.
Orca businesses are solely involved in some sort
of aquatic pursuit, such as aquafarming, fishing,
search and rescue, aquatic research, environmental
consultation and undersea mining. There are no
Orca megacorporations – indeed nearly all Orca
businesses are small concerns within the interstellar
scheme, operating only on one planet and usually
only one location on a planet.

R

