They prefer to work with their own kind and it is rare
to find any other race, including Dolphins, working
directly with Orca. If consultation must take place
with another race, the eldest female in the business
will normally conduct the contact, sometimes
accompanied by her immediate direct descendants.
Conversely, Orca have no compunction with working
with robots. They will have many robots performing
functions for they find difficult or tedious to undertake
themselves, including operating the financial aspects
of a business. It is not unusual for Orca to send a
robot to attend meetings as their proxy, knowing full
well the robot will serve the needs of the business first
and foremost. Orca will also use robots to perform
aspects of labour, in particular for mining operations.

THE MILITARY

Orca can be quite militant and conflict between
clans and communities are not unheard of. Due
to their hierarchical society, Orca find adapting to
life in the military of other races to be surprisingly
easy, although they can sometimes have difficulty
accepting orders from male commanders.
Orca societies often form their own militaries, although
unlike many other cultures, their militaries tend to
be along family lines, with mothers commanding
sons and daughters and their daughters’ offspring.
Among themselves, Orca associate rank with the
position an Orca holds in its family group, pod and
clan. Their rank structure has been adopted from
human structures and modified to suit their needs.
Orca forces of this type are extensively trained in
both armed and unarmed conflict, utilising artificial
limbs to aid in manipulation and weapons designed
for vehicles mounted on armoured harnesses. Some
forces are even trained in the Orca equivalent of battle
dress and have proven to be devastating opponents.

LANGUAGE AND NAMING
Orca speak Dephanese – the same language as
Dolphins, albeit with a differing dialect. Orca and
Dolphins readily understand each other and while

Orca are able to understand other languages as well
and, thanks to modifications to their vocal apparatus,
are able to learn to speak other languages as well. An
Orca voice is high pitched and they are prone to over
pronounce clicking and sibilant sounds, which some
races can find rather amusing. Orca do not tolerate
their voices or pronunciation being made light of.
They name their calves at birth, which remains with
them their entire lives. Orca names are composed
of a number of components. The first is their birth
name, given to them by their mother. Their second
name is their family name, which will be the same
as all members of a family group and pod. The third
component of their name is the name of their clan. This
name can change as Orca move from clan-to-clan and
back again. The last component of their name is that
of their community. Like their clan name, an Orca’s
community name can change as they themselves
move among communities. An Orca that is not part of a
community will often take the name of the organisation
they work for as their community name.
Orca tend to just go by their first and second names, except
on formal occasions, when they will use their full name.
To humans, Orca names sound like whistles and
clicks, such as ‘Squeee-k-k-kee’ or ‘Ki-keee-k’. The
syllables can sometimes extend into the ultrasonic
and subsonic, causing humans to miss the complete
name. Orca who commonly deal with humans and
other races will adopt a first and second name
in Anglic for ease of communication. They are
impressed however, when other races try to use
an Orca’s name in their native Delphanese and
appreciate the attempt.

NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION

Before sophoncy was achieved, humans
communicated with Orca using a simplified
combination of sign language and verbalisation.
This language is largely lost among humans but
Orca remember tales of it. This was primarily a
single-direction language, from human to Orca;
understanding would be imparted by the Orca with
head movements or flipper gestures but they could
impart nothing even remotely complex back to
humans. Modern Orca take great offence if another
race tries to use this language with them today,
seeing it as an obvious affront to their sophoncy.

The Orca

It is rare for Orca to join the forces of other races,
although it is certainly not unheard of for an entire
Orca family group to be enlisted into a military
organisation, especially on worlds with large oceans.
Even more rarely does an Orca join a terrestrial or
starfaring contingent but when it has happened the
Orca have universally been without a family.

Dolphins will make light of Orca accents and dialects,
they never do so in their presence. Orca are a less
dispersed race then Dolphins, so their dialects have
not drifted as far apart as that of their cousins.

205

