THE ORCA HOMEWORLD
Orca evolved on Terra but consider Sufren to be their
homeworld, as that is the planet where their Great
Awakening took place. Located in the Sufren subsector
of Diaspora, the planet is the subsector capital, a
garden world and major industrial hub considered to be
the jewel of the sector
Sufren has a day which is 23 hours and 53 minutes long.
It orbits its sun, an M1 V red dwarf at a distance of 0.475
AU and has an orbital period of 365.2422 days. Sufren
has an axial tilt of 23.5 degrees, causing clearly separated
seasons. Sufren has no natural satellite but the proximity
of the sun causes tides in the oceans ranging from zero
metres at low tide to 16 metres in some locations.
The nature of Sufren has posed significant questions
among scientific communities. The length of day and year
on Sufren are almost identical to that of Terra, which should
be impossible – when taking into account the distance of
Sufren from its primary, the planet should be tidally locked.
Sufren has a temperate and hospitable climate,
with average temperatures averaging 12 degrees
Celsius and a sea-level air pressure of 1.59 standard
atmospheres. The atmosphere consists primarily of
nitrogen, oxygen and water vapour with trace amounts
of carbon-dioxide and other gaseous molecules. The
atmosphere is breathable without assistance, although
some visitors may experience some difficulties breathing
at lower altitudes until they become acclimatised.
A native lifeform known locally as Marsdust has a
significant impact on the planet’s atmosphere. A simple
airborne spore, Marsdust is a photosynthetic, oxygen
producing organism, which thrives on the red spectrum
of visible light and reflects orange light. It pervades the
stratosphere and mesosphere of Sufren’s atmosphere
and not only boosts oxygen pressure by almost 0.25%
but changes the quality of light that penetrates to the
surface. By removing much of the red wavelength and
reflecting a significant percentage of orange, Marsdust
functions as a colour filter. The resulting surface light of
Sufren is more white-amber, producing the appearance
of a perpetually bright dusk to eyes accustomed to
Terran equivalents. The sky of the planet changes
colours dramatically as morning and evening
approaches, fading from bright greenish-blue to deep
blues, greens and purples.

206

GEOGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY

Sufren is a rocky body with a molten core of iron,
providing the planet with a magnetic belt that protects
the surface from stellar radiation. The planet is slightly
denser than Terra, giving it a gravity of 0.72G, with
a crust divided into seven major tectonic plates, still
geologically active.
The planet is dominated by two large and deep oceans
covering approximately 63% of the planet. The rest of
the surface is occupied by five major continents, one
minor continent, several archipelagos and numerous
isolated small islands. The islands exhibit a range of
climates and topographies suitable for human habitation.

