T

NATIVE LIFEFORMS
Sufren hosts a large and diverse ecosystem. Organic
life consists of left-handed amino acids and possesses
a biochemistry that is almost identical to biochemistry
found on Terra.
Plant life exists in both aquatic and terrestrial forms,
the vast majority using oxygenic photosynthesis to
generate energy. Chlorophyll has evolved to utilise
as much of the visible light spectrum given out by the
red dwarf sun and appears to be dark purple to black
on photosynthetic surfaces. A small minority of plants
utilise anaerobic photosynthesis and are yellow or
green on their photosynthetic surfaces.

The Orca Homeworld

Animal life is primarily bilaterally symmetrical consisting
of two sexes that reproduce sexually. Exceptions occur,
with the most common being radial symmetry that are
either hermaphroditic or reproduce asexually. The base
compounds of life and the manner in which they have
manifested is almost identical to that found on Terra,
with genetic material composed of DNA made up to the
same four chemical bases and organised into pairs and
arranged in double helixes. While many planets have life
that resembles that of Terra, life on Sufren could have
easily evolved on Terra, leading some scientists to proffer
an argument of panspermia to resolve the similarities.

208

If taking numbers into consideration, insect analogues
with external skeletons would be considered the
dominant lifeforms on the planet, filling almost every
ecological niche available. Animals have evolved
into a vast number of clades with internal skeletons
that mimic those found on Terra including piscine,
amphibian, reptilian, avian and mammalian analogues.
Mammal analogues dominate the land surfaces and
the skies, while reptile analogues dominate the oceans.
Amphibian analogues are relatively rare and seeing a
decline in population while piscine are also rare, having
largely died out during an anoxic period in the planet's
past, which allowed reptiles to occupy their niche.

IMPERIAL NOBILITY
Sufren hosts the estates of a number of Imperial
nobles, as would be expected of a subsector capital.
These include Duchess Marinda Piri von Zlata,
Countess Alinessa Herais von Zlata and Baronet
Ozlem Tobia Kyou.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Duchess Marinda Piri von Zlata is the duchess of the
subsector of Sufren and eldest daughter of the previous
duke, Justyn Tayshaun von Zlata. Marinda, the only
surviving issue of the previous duke, was a sickly child
and as such was pampered and spoiled. When Miranda
turned 16, she was ensconced as the Countess of
Navar, which was passed down from her father as
was the tradition in the von Zlata dynasty, although
her duties were undertaken by a staff of regents until
she turned 21. On completion of her education at the
University of Sufren, Marinda embarked on her Grand
Tour of the sector. The tour was expected to last four
years but she was called back early to assume the
role of duchess at the untimely death of her father.
Furious at her early recall, Marinda returned to accept
her inheritance and then promptly left the duties to be
overseen by her father’s, and now her own, advisors
while she returned to her tour. The duchess, familiar
with the comfort of noble life, continues to leave her
duties to be undertaken by her administration and pays
little attention to it. Instead, she prefers to enjoy the
advantages of her fortuitous birth, living a life of luxury
while her every need and desire is seen to by others.
The duchess was courted by many suitors almost as
soon as she was raised to her position but she had little
interest in committing to any. It was not until she turned
35 when her heart was captured by the dashing third
son of the Subsector Duke of Khavle. They undertook
a whirlwind courtship and were married scarcely
six months later; shortly thereafter the duchess
announced her pregnancy with their first child. The
happy announcement soon turned to dismay when the
duchess suffered a miscarriage but 12 months later
she again announced she was pregnant. This time
the pregnancy was carried to term and their daughter
was named Alinessa Herais von Zlata. Alinessa was
followed by three other siblings – Roman Audrick and
the twins Cadwanllon Hanson and Ethelred Angevin.
Duchess von Zlata stands at 5’1” but is morbidly obese,
unable to stand or walk for any period of time. She
spends most of her time reclining on a gravitic sedan.
Marinda keeps her hair dyed at its natural black and
has undergone a number of treatments in an attempt
to reclaim her youthful appearance, none of which
have been terribly successful. She is short-tempered
and petty and her advisors and staff cater to her every
whim, taking great measures not to raise her ire as her
punishments can be punitive and disproportionate. The
duchess rarely made public appearances in her youth
and less so now she is elderly. She delegates all such
duties to her son Roman.

R

