Countess Alinessa Herais von Zlata is the Countess
of Navar, which includes under its title the worlds
of Houstar and Maelstrom. Alinessa was born
prematurely and thanks to the advanced medical
techniques available on Sufrin, Alinessa not only
survived but thrived. She was raised largely by a staff
of nannies and educators, and received little of the
same pampering her mother enjoyed. An excellent
student, she continued her studies at the University of
Sufren, majoring in political and economic sciences.
It was while at university Alinessa was exposed to the
Authentic Movement, which she immediately adopted.
Like her mother before her, Alinessa was granted the
title of countess at 16 but unlike her mother showed
an avid interest in the responsibilities that came with
the title. At the conclusion of her studies, Alinessa
undertook her Grand Tour and when she returned to
Sufrin four years later, threw herself whole-heartedly
into her duties and responsibilities.
As countess, Alinessa has a sizable fief on Sufren as well
as one on Navar. Alinessa only visits her fief on Navar
occasionally, as she feels she can best dispatch her
duties on the subsector capital. Her duties on Navar are
left in the care of her seneschal, Baronet Jory Hanover.
Countess Alinessa is a handsome woman in her early
30’s, patient and thoughtful, slow to anger and prone
to explore every aspect of a problem before making a
decision. She maintains a constant hand in the duties
of her position and is known as a hardworking and
diligent noble well loved by the people of Sufren.

STARPORT
Sufren boasts an impressive Class B starport with
both orbital and planetary infrastructure. The port is a
major layover point in the Sufren Cluster and sees a
significant amount of traffic from tourists, traders and
researchers as well as Imperial governance traffic.

The top of the pylon houses the traffic control centre,
while the bottom houses port facilities for domestic
traffic. The domestic port has berthing facilities or craft
up to 200 tons and external docking facilities for craft
up to 5,000 tons, catering to local traffic only. Interstellar
traffic is directed to the larger port facilities located on the
top ring, with berths for starships up to 1,000 tons and
external docking facilities for vessels up to 20,000 tons.
Larger ships are directed to stationary orbit by traffic
control and can access the port using smaller vessels.
Main starport administration, included warehousing and
customs are also located in the upper ring.
Along the outside of the bottom ring are construction
and maintenance facilities. The starport is only able
to construct spacecraft but provides maintenance and
repairs for starships as well.
The rest of the orbital structure comprises support,
residential, industrial and subsector administration
facilities. Transport within the structure consists of fast
transport vacuum tubes, which can arrive at any part of
the station within minutes.
The downport is located on an island directly below
the highport. The port itself is huge, measuring 100
square kilometres with landing pads and berths, along
with hangers, maintenance bays and administration
facilities. The downport also has construction yards
capable of constructing spacecraft up to 1,000 tons. It
sees almost as many ships as the highport, although
most traffic is either heading to the highport itself or
somewhere else within the system.
The island, named Nova Scotia, acts as a surrogate
planetary capital – an independent polity apart from the
three main governments of the planet and overseen
by an executive council nominated by the System
Congress. The startown, Nova Scotia City, is also the
site of the System Congress buildings and its support
infrastructure. Nova Scotia City is neutral territory and
boasts a more relaxed Law Level 6. The local law
is upheld by peace-keeping troops, donated by the
constituent nations of the System Congress.

The Orca Homeworld

Baronet Ozlem Tobia Kyou, is Sufren’s planetary
representative at the Moot and a knight of the Order
of the Emperor’s Guard. Despite his responsibilities,
he has only visited Capital once and only to delegate
his proxy. He is rather unconcerned with the politics
of his fiefdom, delegating his responsibilities to his
younger brother Sir Dawid, a retired Imperial Navy
commodore. Meanwhile, the baronet enjoys the
hospitality of Duchess von Zlata and her palace. Ozlem
is a prominent member of the Duchess's court and has
manoeuvered himself into the position of the Duchess's
most favoured adviser. Ozlem uses his position in the
subsector court to his own advantage.

The highport sits in a geosynchronous orbit above the
equator. Constructed as a pair of thick rings stacked
on top of each other, each ring has a diameter of four
kilometres, a height of two kilometres and a thickness
of two kilometres. A central pylon with a length of six
kilometres and diameter of one kilometre runs through
the centre, connecting to each ring by four thick struts.

209

