Conversely, the Tech Level for cybernetics is low,
sitting at the late TL13 level of development in all areas
except those which deal in providing assistance to
sophonts who lack manipulative or motive capability as
a normal characteristic of their species. In this case, the
TL is an early TL14.
All other technologies are at a mature TL15 level of
sophistication.

GOVERNMENT

Sufren has no single government. Instead, several separate
governments operate together to govern the world.
The first and largest is the Protectorate of Sufren,
a representative democracy, overseen in theory by
Duchess von Zlata as the nation’s nominal head of
state. The duchess has no direct control over the
government except to act as signatory to legislation
and to legitimise or dissolve government. The
Protectorate of Sufren takes great pains to maintain a
democratic tradition, possible by the world’s relatively
high technology that allows extensive electronic input
from the electorate, including frequent referenda, and
confidence and recall votes.
The other two governments are the United Orca
Communities and the Combined Dolphin Clans, both of
which are charismatic oligarchies.

Congress meetings are held face-to-face through a glasssided open water pool known as the Think Tank to allow
the representatives of the Orca and Dolphin communities
to have a direct presence. The nature of these discourses
is most often confidential but there is no small amount
of public speculation that the Orca are keen social and
military analysts with a zen-like concept – and approach
to – the manipulation of power and politics.

As subsector capital, Sufren also houses the infrastructure
and administrative apparatus necessary for such tasks,
the majority of which can be found in Clester, a city
built specifically to house the machinery of subsector
government and those employed by it. Duchess von
Zlata has ‘modest’ accommodations in the clester, where
she resides for half the year. Clester is an independent
city state under the direct rule of Duchess von Zlata,
protected by her personal huscarles, which also operate
as a police force within the city’s jurisdiction. When not in
residence in Clester, the duchess resides in Zrosa Palace,
an impressive grav-lifted ducal abode with vast and
immaculately manicured gardens.

LAW LEVEL

As a balkanised world, Sufren’s Law level is by necessity
an average of the combined political entities on the planet.
As an average, the Law Level is relatively low at 3, making
military weapons and mesh armour prohibited. Dangerous
poisons are also outlawed. Personal freedoms are highly
protected by the law, such as freedom of speech, the right
to worship, right to travel, right to own property and right to
bear children. Civil law protects the rights and freedoms of
the individual over those of businesses and corporations,
while criminal law against individuals is relatively relaxed.
Most crimes will attract a fine if convicted, with custodial
sentences only handed down for actions causing the
intended death of an individual.
Environmental laws, conversely, are extremely harsh
on Sufren, with convicted criminals handed down steep
fines, long prison sentences and even execution. In
the most severe cases, corporations have been forced
to undergo forced closure with the board of directors
executed and upper management serving long terms in
prison. Many offworlders consider punishment for even
small transgressions to be excessive – Cr10000 fines
for any littering, even of biodegradable objects.

MILITARY

As the subsector capital, Sufren boasts a large military
force, both Imperial and local. Imperial forces include a
large naval base in orbit around the innermost gas giant
Rachlum, as well as military construction yards able
to build starships up to 250,000 tons. One CruRron
and one BatRon, as well as their support facilities, are
permanently stationed in the naval base. The Imperial
navy base is heavily patrolled up to the 100-diameter
mark and can only be approached by authorised
vessels. Gas giant refuelling at Rachlum is prohibited

The Orca Homeworld

Together, along with the governments of other inhabited
worlds in the Sufren solar system, they form the
System Congress; a non-governing organisation, which
oversees the maintenance of peace and diplomatic
relations between the three nations, providing a
neutral space where the individual governments
may meet to discuss and implement measures for
planetary and system-wide security. While the System
Congress is a non-governing body, decisions made by
representatives of the Congress hold significant weight
throughout the system and the political influence of the
organisation is not insubstantial.

The System Congress is overseen and chaired by Lady
Alinessa Marinida von Zlata, the duchess's eldest daughter.

211

