T

and any unauthorised vessel approaching Rachlum
or the naval base will be ordered to alter course. Not
adhering to instructions will be met with force.
On the surface of Sufren is both an Imperial Naval
Academy and an Imperial Marine Academy, both of
which service the entire subsector. The Marine Academy
specialises in underwater combat and joint operations
between surface and ocean dwelling personnel.

V

E

L

L

E

from pharmaceuticals developed through genetic
engineering, life forms genetically adapted to particular
biospheres, cloning and designer life forms for those
who can afford them. Eclipsing the income from all
these sources, GenAssist are also the primary producer
and exporter of anagathics in the domain. GenAssist
also have a number of hospitals where they provide
specialised medical care and a university dedicated to
the science and art of genetic manipulation that draws
students and patients from across Diaspora.
The sunsets and sunrises on Sufren are a spectacular
sight, known throughout the subsector, drawing millions
of tourists every year.

Planetary forces consist of four regiments, 20 battalions
in total, four of which are mobile lift infantry. Deep
emplacement meson cannons aid in orbital protection and
an air force and wet navy round out the planetary defences.
Planetary military assets boast TL13 arms and equipment.

The population on Sufren is largely human of Solomani
or mixed decent. A small percentage of Vilani and Minor
Race humans also make their home on Sufren, many
of whom live in Nova Scotia City.

Sufren is a garden world with a high population. It has
abundant resources that have not been fully exploited,
a work force which can be counted in the hundreds
of millions and a comprehensive and far reaching
infrastructure. The planet is financially strong and holds
a significant place in the economy of the subsector. It is
more than capable of supporting its citizens at the level
of comfort they have become accustomed to.

The Orca Homeworld

A

Colonial forces include a significant System Defence
Boat force, with vessels ranging from 200 tons to 600
tons, stationed at the highport. Adding to this compliment
is a full BatRon of Gallant-class battle riders purchased
from the Imperial Navy. The local force also includes a
fleet of customs cutters and fighter wings, which not only
add to the security of the system but aid in its defence
as well. These combined forces prove to be a serious
deterrent to smugglers, pirates and hostile forces alike.

ECONOMY

212

R

The Protectorate of Sufren supports its citizens with a
basic universal income, with no obligations attached.
Citizens who cannot or choose not to work are able
to live at a comfortable level above the poverty line.
Those who do choose to work enjoy a commensurately
comfortable life provided for by the income they earn.
The citizens of the Orca and Dolphin nations do not
enjoy a similar subsidy but they have no direct need
for money. The majority work the vast aquafarms
surrounding the land masses, drawing their economic
strength from income generated by those industries.
The products of genetic engineering are a major
component of the planetary economy, ranging

Sufren also exports a large amount of raw materials
including copper, tin, gold and iron, as well as
electronics, computers and cybernetics.

DEMOGRAPHICS

Orca represent a significant minority with 10% of the
total population. Dolphins enjoy a smaller minority of
just 4% of the total population.
Making up less than 0.1% of the population are a
variety of other races which hail from all across Charted
Space but even at this small percentage they number
well into the millions.

CULTURE

As it stands, it is difficult to summarise Sufren’s cultural
outlook, considering its balkanised nature. Suffice
to say, with the vast majority of citizens freed from
the need to work, there is strong encouragement for
self-improvement. This can take many forms, from
improving knowledge through further education, to
physical ability, to achieving excellence in a field of
work. For this reason, Sufren has a disproportionate
number of universities considering its population and is
recognised as a centre for learning and education.
This cultural pressure towards self-improvement has
led to a broad acceptance of the Authentic Movement.
Citizens are encouraged to look into their heritage, either
as a personal project or with the aid of any number of
business enterprises which assist in such searches.
Local councils frequently hold festivals to celebrate

R

