cultural heritage and large areas of cities and town have
grown around single or related, cultures. Visitors can find
entire districts which celebrate their Asian, American,
European, Islander and Australian heritage, with further
breakdowns of specific heritages within. For example, in
the Asian district a visitor is likely to find a China Town, a
Japan Town, a Korea Town and so forth, fully embracing
their cultural heritage with architectural styles, language,
fashion and traditional festivals.

sidewalks, helping to cool microclimates within city
environs and provide a habitat and food source for
wildlife that has adapted to urban living. Buildings are
designed in an almost uniform pattern with businesses
located on lower floors and residences above, with
those of greater wealth living on higher floors. The truly
wealthy live on the rooves of skyscrapers in enclaves
that have manicured gardens and domiciles, which are
apart from the rest of the building proper.

While the planetary government strongly supports the
Authentic Movement, the duchess and other nobles
maintain some distance from it, holding instead to a
cultural loyalty to the Imperium as a whole. Lady Alinessa
is the exception. She openly and enthusiastically
supports the Authentic Movement and is a sponsor for
the Authentic Festival, a celebration of cultural heritage
held annually across the planet. When not seeing to her
responsibilities to the System Congress she is attending
and/or sponsoring one of the numerous smaller Authentic
cultural celebrations, which are held across the globe.

On many worlds where there is stratification of wealth
and living space, a culture has grown which includes
an ‘upper city’ for the wealthy and an ‘under city’ for the
poor. On Sufren, this has been largely avoided by not
having a class that is considered poor by introduction of
the universal basic income.

With the Protectorate’s strong stance on democracy and
representation, the people of Sufren are encouraged to
develop strong views on subjects they find interesting
or important to them. Children are taught from a young
age to form an educated opinion and how to defend their
opinion using facts and logic. The art of debate is greatly
enjoyed by the people of Sufren, becoming something
of a sport with debating teams achieving fame and
recognition. Suffice to say, the tendency for strong
opinions have led to the people of Sufren developing a
reputation of stubbornness within the subsector.

URBANISATION

Buildings are constructed tall, to minimise disruption
to the environment. Green areas are common within
the boundaries of cities and many buildings support
vegetation both internally and externally. Decorative
and food bearing trees and shrubs grow along

A comprehensive network of underground hypertubes
provides rapid public transport within cities, between
cities, farming communities and nature reserves in a
worldwide network. Anyone can travel almost anywhere
on Sufren in less than six hours.
Rural living is rather idyllic, with the majority being
farmers of one sort or another. Farming is undertaken
with assistance from farming robots, which places
farmers in the role of overseers and administrators, with
an eye to the preservation of the environment. Any new
farming endeavour must apply for government permits
that are not provided without extensive environmental
impact studies being undertaken first.
Much of Sufren, both terrestrial and marine, has been
set aside as nature reserves, strongly protected by
legislation to prevent disturbance. Access to nature
reserves requires permits that can be difficult to
obtain and are overseen and patrolled by rangers
using drones and robots. Unauthorised presence,
disturbance, interference or polluting of nature reserves
carries heavy fines and prison sentences.

The Orca Homeworld

Despite its large population, Sufren is far from
overcrowded. The vast majority of the population
resides within large cities surrounded by small rural
settlements. The population has access to advanced
fusion power generation and each building has its own
fusion generator, which provides more than sufficient
power for the residents with no need for an extensive
energy infrastructure. Even the poorest among the
Sufren’s citizens live comfortably and in a manner
some may consider luxurious.

Ground level traffic consists of pedestrians and musclepowered vehicles such as bicycles, with powered vehicles
and public transport consigned to traffic-ways several
levels above. The majority of industrial traffic is still
wheeled and utilises ‘sky roads’ five stories above ground
level. Powered public and private transport is largely
gravitic and confined to 10 to 15 stories above ground
level depending on direction. All powered transport is
controlled by a computerised traffic control system that
has practically eliminated congestion and accidents.

213

