T

PLACES AND EVENTS

Like many planets, Sufren has places and events of
interest to tourists and as the subsector capital, Sufren
receives a significant number of tourists annually.

THE GREAT ZIGGURAT OF SUFREN

The Orca Homeworld

Sufren is the site of some ruins that are believed to be
of Ancients origin. The site consists of ruins of a small
village surrounding a ziggurat 96 metres in length, 68
metres in width and 45 metres in height. Constructed of
an unknown alloy, the ziggurat sits in the exact centre
of the village and is perfectly aligned with the planet’s
north/south/east/west axes. It is impeccably preserved
and shows no effects of erosion or weathering. A single
entrance has been discovered leading into the massive
structure, which gives access to a number of chambers,
constructed at a massive scale, suggesting the builders
may have been at least twice if not three times taller
than humans.

214

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

One chamber in particular has raised significant interest
in researchers as on its walls are highly stylised images
depicting the Major Races of Charted Space, along with
Orca and Dolphins, undertaking a variety of activities.
The style of the images is simple and in contrast with
the elegance of the ziggurat leading some researchers
to hypothesise the images were added some time after
the erection of the ziggurat, and perhaps by a race
other than the original builders, although the manner
of applying the images is under debate as researchers
have found no way to mark or damage the material the
ziggurat is made from. There is a significant amount of
disagreement among researchers as to the meaning
of the diagrams, the least of which is how the builders
knew of Orca and Dolphins hundreds of thousands of
years before their arrival on Sufren.
Densitometer readings of the area below the ziggurat
indicate an intricate and complex tunnel system that
extends a significant distance underground. Sensor
readings indicate there is a power source located deep
within the tunnel system but there is no indication of

R

