what it is powering. Some researchers have postulated
it is an Ancients power source, which is somehow
maintaining Sufren’s rotation and axial stability but this
hypothesis is not widely accepted.
Several attempts have been made to access the
tunnels. The ziggurat does not appear to have an
entrance to them, nor has any forced entry into the
tunnels been successful.
The village surrounding the ziggurat consists of the
remains of simple mud brick igloo-style single-story
dwellings constructed using local materials, suggesting
the builders were an order of magnitude less advanced
than those of the ziggurat. Each dwelling consists of
a hemispherical edifice with a single entrance only
1.2 metres tall, indicating the inhabitants were most
likely shorter than humans. The village also contains
larger buildings, one with simple amphitheatres within,
suggesting it may have been intended as a meeting
hall, used for entertainment, or perhaps used for some
religious purpose. The walls of the meeting hall also
bear images of the Major Races, Orca and Dolphins in
the same style as found within the ziggurat.
Surprisingly, no artefacts have been discovered in
the ruins of the village or the ziggurat. Nor have any
remains been found of the original builders of either
the ziggurat or the village. Theories abound of what
occurred at the location, who the inhabitants were and
what happened to them.

THE CLIFF OF SUNSETS
The sunrises and sunsets on Sufren have a welldeserved reputation for beauty across the sector but
even the best of those pales in comparison to the
display produced at the Fire Opal Cliffs. These cliffs,
located on the shoreline of the Cisalpine Sea, stand
150 metres tall and are composed entirely of solid opal.
The opal catches the light from the setting sun, causing
the cliffs to glow with colour. On the last local day of
autumn, when the sun is at just the right angle as it
sets, the light is caught by the opal cliffs and reflected
and refracted to produce a shimmering rainbow display.
When viewed in conjunction with the sunset, the sight
is breath-taking.
Tourists flock from far afield to witness this event.
The Fire Opal Cliffs are designated a national reserve
and treasure and, as such, are protected from any
development. As short distance from the cliffs however,
a small community has developed, which caters to the
tourist rush that gathers to delight at this annual display.

ANIMAL ENCOUNTERS

Like many worlds in Charted Space, Sufren boasts
diverse ecosystems that evolved over millions of years
before the arrival of humans and their introduction of
alien species. Many animals on Sufren can prove to be
a danger to Travellers and some have been introduced
to other worlds.

AUTHENTIC FESTIVAL
The Authentic Festival is held annually on Sufren
between the fifth and eighth weeks of the year. The
festival begins quietly in the first week with workshops
on cultural heritage and genealogy, followed in
the second week by traditional theatre and music
performances. The third week continues with classes
in traditional cooking and fashion, with the fourth week
culminating in a week-long fair that encompasses and
celebrates cultural heritage.

NEW TRAIT: MESMERISE (X)
The animal is able to mesmerise its victims
through some sort of display. The target of this
display must make an INT check at the difficulty
listed in the trait. If the victim fails, they are unable
to perform any actions except stare at the creature
for 1D rounds or until they take damage.

The Orca Homeworld

The entire site is registered as a preserve by the
Protectorate of Sufren. The ziggurat is open to
researchers and scientists who obtain the proper
permits from the government, although the University of
Sufren holds a permanent permit for the site. The ruins
are open to tourists but only under the supervision of a
tour guide. Tours normally occur on a weekly basis but
reservations must be made in advance and are limited
to 10 visitors per group.

The Authentic Festival has been a planetary event
on Sufren for over two decades, having its origins in
small local fairs. The events found greater recognition
once Lady Alinessa began patronising the Authentic
Movement and local events rapidly gained in popularity
and attendance, until she announced and helped fund
the first annual planet-wide Authentic Festival. The
festival now draws tourists from across the subsector,
some of whom are returning to their ancestral home on
Sufren and others to join the celebrations.

215

