ORCA TRAVELLERS
Orca Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers. Unless otherwise stated
in this chapter, use all the creation and career rules
described in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

ORCA

Orca Travellers have the following modifiers to their
characteristics: STR+8, END+4, SOC-4

ORCA TRAITS
Orca Travellers all possess the following traits.
Big and Tough: Orca are much larger than humans
and can soak up a lot more damage unless a vulnerable
location such as the head is struck. Whenever an Orca is
subject to an effect that reduces END, whether through
physical damage or exertion, END reduction is halved,
dropping any fractions. For example, an Orca who is
hit for seven points of damage reduces END 3 points.
END is also treated as being doubled for the purposes
of determining the duration (but not the effectiveness)
of physical activity. Lastly, due to their size, Orca take
up 12 times as much room on spacecraft and vehicles
as humans do. For example, a stateroom on a starship
designed for Orca use takes up 48 tons.
Cold Resistance: Orca possess a thick covering of
blubber that keeps them warm, providing DM+4 to all
checks made to resist the effects of low temperatures.
Deep Diver (260m): Orca can dive deep underwater,
to a depth of 260 metres without risk and can hold their
breath for up to 15 minutes.
Echolocation (100m): Orca use a highly sensitive
echolocation sense to navigate their environment,
effectively allowing them to ‘see’ underwater or in complete
darkness to a range of 100 metres.
Succour Syndrome: When Orca hear the distress calls
of other Orca they risk suffering from succour syndrome. If
they fail a Very Difficult (12+) Gun Combat or Melee check
(1D seconds, INT) both their INT and EDU temporarily
drop to zero and they must immediately swim as fast as
possible to the side of the distressed cetacean.

218

Swimmer (16m): Orca are superb swimmers and can
move through water at a speed of 16 metres.

STARTING AGE
Orca mature at almost the same speed as humans.
Travellers begin their careers at 18 years of age and
untrained and inexperienced, they embark on a career
to gain new skills and experience. Orca begin aging
at the end of their fourth term at 32. Each career term
lasts for four Imperial years.

TITLES

Orca use titles just as humans and many other races
do. They have a strict hierarchy within their society and
understand the use of position and authority which is in
use in many other cultures.

CAREERS

Orca who live closely with humans in societies at TL7+
have the same access to university and academy
pre-career options. Orca always apply DM-2 when
attempting to enter university but gain DM+1 when
attempting to enter a Military Academy.
Orca careers, in general, are used as described in the
Traveller Core Rulebook. However, there are exceptions:
• Orca may attempt to qualify for the Dolphin
Military career, the Spirit Singer career or the
Dolphin Civilian career, except for the historianpoet assignment. Orca may attempt to qualify for
careers described in the Traveller Core Rulebook
but only after first acquiring the Vacc Suit skill.
• It is unusual for Orca to pursue careers as
bureaucrats or Rogues. Orca Rogues are usually
the last survivors of a family that has been wiped
out or an outcast.
• Orca cannot become Drifters. The nomad
assignment for the Dolphin Civilian replaces
the Drifter for any Orca Traveller. An Orca may
automatically enlist in this career.
• Orca are unable to become Merchants since the
concept of trade and commerce is unfathomable to
them or Nobles since they believe in the absolute
equality of all.

