PSIONICS
Orca are as capable as humans in psychic potential but it
is something which is rarely tested for. An Orca that does
prove positive for psionic potential is able to pursue the
Psion career (page 204 of the Traveller Core Rulebook).

ORCA SKILLS

Orca with a waldo set can perform just about any
skill a human can. Those without are limited to skills
which do not require hands or legs. A few other special
considerations apply to Orca.
Athletics: Orca use Athletics (dexterity) only for
high jumping or long jumping if it begins in the water.
Sprinting means fast swimming. Use the normal rules
except that a sprinting Orca can cover 96 + twice their
Effect metres with every check. An Orca may not climb.
Athletics (dexterity) is also used for catching things with
an Orca’s teeth or rostum. Use Athletics (endurance)
for long distance swimming and Athletics (strength) for
tasks such as swatting with a tail or ramming with a
rostrum, although actual attacks use Melee (natural).
Vacc Suit: This is a very common skill among Orca
even if they do not serve in space. Orca may use their
Vacc Suit skill to offset any negative DM inflicted by
waldos but may not increase the DM above +0.

UNAVAILABLE SKILLS
Orca Travellers have some limitations on the skills
they receive during their careers and may not gain the
Broker or Gambler skills. If one of these skills is rolled,
roll for another. If the second result is the same, the roll
is lost and the career process continues as normal.

MUSTERING OUT

Any Benefit rolls from careers an Orca takes terms
in, including Dolphin Citizen or Dolphin Military, which
result in Armour or Weapon may instead be taken as
a travel suit (without waldo). Additional results of the
same type can be taken as a waldo or additional travel
suits. If an Orca already possessing a travel suit and
waldo receives an Armour or Weapon result, they may
instead raise their Vacc Suit skill by one level.
When rolling on a Cash Benefits table from careers other
than Philosopher-elder, Spirit Singer, Dolphin Citizen and
Dolphin Military, all results are reduced to 10% of their
Credit value to represent the total lack of interest in or
understanding of money on the part of Orca Travellers.
Benefit rolls resulting in a Waldo or Travel Suit grant
these items to a maximum of TL12.

Orca Travellers
219

