Events

2D
2

7

Rivalries between another race and Orca on your world’s ocean resources lead to conflict. Do you
choose violence or diplomacy? If you choose diplomacy roll Advocate or Diplomat 8+. Success
means your faction was vindicated and you gain DM+2 on your next advancement roll; failure
means a loss of one Benefit roll. If you chose violence roll Explosives, Gun Combat or Tactics
8+. Failure results in DM-2 on your next advancement roll and you must roll on the Injury table.
Whichever path you choose, raise your Leadership or the skill you rolled on by +1.
You volunteer for a research project to test new waldo equipment or cybernetics to improve the lives
of Orca. Gain a Contact in the research field and roll EDU 7+ to gain Science (cybernetics) 1.
You have a chance to travel offworld and spend a long period of time in space. Increase your choice
of either Athletics (dexterity), Electronics (comms) or Electronics (sensors) by +1 or gain Pilot 1.
You rescue a high-status swimmer who was lost at sea. Roll STR 7+; if successful gain a SOC
10+ sophont as an Ally.
Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table.

8

Spend an extensive period living out of water among humans. Raise Vacc Suit or Diplomat by +1.

9

11

Your companions are attached by fierce sea creatures! Do you fight or flee? If you flee gain one
of survivors as an Enemy. If you stay and fight, roll Melee (natural) or Gun Combat 7+ to rescue
them; if successful, gain one of them as an Ally. If you fail roll on the Injury table.
You are asked to volunteer for a dangerous mission to rescue people in a sinking vessel or
underwater city. Roll Survival or END 8+. If successful gain DM+2 on your next advancement roll
and gain an extra Benefit roll. If you fail, roll on the Injury table.
You discover a sunken vessel that contains valuable salvage. Gain one Benefit roll.

12

Rise to a position of responsibility. Your next advancement roll automatically succeeds.

1D

MISHAP
Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

3

4
5
6

10

Mishaps

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

1
2
3

5
6

Orca Travellers

4

One of your friends becomes involved with a revolutionary political faction advocating Orca rights.
You are caught up in the investigation and lose your job.
A war or insurgency erupts on your world. Roll Gun Combat or Melee 8+; if you succeed you are
automatically drafted into the Dolphin Military. If you fail your home is destroyed, forcing you into exile.
A purist political party comes to power on your world making trouble for uplifted Orca and costing
you your job. Lose SOC-1 and gain a purist political militant as an Enemy.
An accident leaves you caught on land without a Travel Suit. You suffer serious dehydration and
require lengthy hospitalisation. Lose END-2.
You are accidently trapped or shot by fishermen. Roll on the Injury table. In addition, also roll SOC
8+ or Advocate 8+; if successful you sue and instead of losing a Benefit roll you gain an extra roll
on the Cash table during the settlement.

1

221

