Events

2D
2

4

Your guidance has proven to be a benefit to the community, gaining the respect of a large number
of clans, gain SOC +1 and an Ally.
A notable Matriarch consults you on some spiritual matters. Gain her as a Contact.

5

You are sent to a new community to guide them. Gain one level of Survival or Persuade.

3

6

7
8
9

10

11
12

Mishaps

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

1D

You retreat from the larger community to a pod of other spirit singers in the hope of a revelation,
although this affects your work and relationships. Lose SOC-3 but gain D3 Benefit rolls and DM+1
on these and all future Benefit rolls.
Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table.
You are chosen to present the Way in a vid show or other highly public forum. Gain one level of
Carouse or Persuade.
Your companions are attached by fierce sea creatures! Do you fight or flee? If you flee gain one
of survivors as an Enemy. If you stay and fight, roll Melee (natural) to rescue them; if successful,
gain one of them as an Ally. If you fail roll on the Injury table.
You are secretly asked to consult the spirits for a dying matriarch, although she does not share
your faith. If you agree, gain an Ally in her Pod but also gain a Rival in your own faith who does
not agree with your choice.
An Orca more charismatic but less devout than you becomes your superior. All future
advancement rolls are subject to DM-2.
You provide spiritual guidance that proves to be highly successful. You are immediately promoted
one rank and gain DM+1 on all future advancement checks.

2

You provide guidance to someone but this angers a friend or relative of theirs. Gain an Enemy.

3

You are caught on the periphery of a scandal. Lose one level of rank and one Benefit roll but you
are not ejected from the career.
You have been misguided in your interpretation of the Way! Lose 1 skill level from either
Profession (spirit singer) or Science (the Way). You do not have to leave the career.
Your faith is shaken. Loss all Benefit rolls gained thus far in this career but you do not have to
leave the career.
You come into conflict with a splinter group of your own religion, which maintains your version is
the wrong one. Gain D3 Rivals.

4
5
6

2

Orca Travellers

1

MISHAP
You are injured by opponents of the Way. Roll on the Injury table.

223

