THE BWAPS
The Bwaps, (derived from their full name, the
Bawapakerwa-a-a-awapawab), also known as wabs or
newts, are a race of intelligent sophonts. Having seen
no need to independently develop their own jump drive,
they purchased the technology from the Vilani during
the First Imperium. While they never discovered the
secrets of the jump drive through their own research
like the Major Races, they are one the most successful
of the Minor Races. Bwaps successfully integrated
themselves into spacefaring society even before they
were capable of their own space travel and once they
obtained the jump drive they spread out into space,
colonising worlds of their own. They can be found
throughout Charted Space and have made themselves
indispensable within not only the bureaucracy and
government of the Third Imperium but also within those
of individual worlds, a multiplicity of pocket empires and
other interstellar polities.

PHYSIOLOGY
Proto-Bwaps were semi amphibious and lived in densely
wooded, mangrove-like swamps. They burrowed under
and among the root systems of large trees to form dens
for the communal protection of themselves and their
young. A shift in their home world’s weather patterns saw
swamps shrink to half their size. Increased population
pressures and competition with other animals forced
the newts into a semi-arboreal lifestyle. The increased
challenges of the alteration of their normal environment
and increased competition led to sophoncy, tool use and
agriculture, permitting them a tremendous advantage
over the competition.
Bwaps are an upright, bipedal, semi-humanoid species
that are endothermic, possess an internal skeleton,
closed circulatory system and consist of two sexes:
male and female. They range in height from 1.2 to 1.5
metres and weigh between 34 and 68 kilograms with
no discernible differences between males and females.
Bwaps are a carbon-based lifeform with a copperbased circulatory system. The blue coloured blood of
the Bwaps gives unpigmented areas of their body, like
the palms of the hands, the bottoms of the feet and the
abdomen, a slight blue-green tint.

228

