Their biochemistry utilises right-handed amino acids
(Humaniti uses left-handed amino acids) and left-handed
carbohydrates, the same as Humaniti. This may cause
Bwaps some difficulties when they do not have access
to the correct proteins in their diet but can be rectified
with easily accessible dietary supplementation.
Bwap hands have three digits and an opposable thumb.
They have no nails but possess webbing that extends
to the first knuckle of the fingers. Some Bwaps are born
with webbing that extends to the tips of the fingers but
this is surgically removed shortly after birth because it
causes the Bwap difficulty when handling objects.
On their feet, Bwaps have three toes with no nails.
The toes are webbed to the first joint and if born with
extended webbing it is also removed. Bwaps also have
a long thick flattened tail, which was once the primary
means of locomotion of aquatic proto-Bwaps, although
it no longer serves this purpose.
Bwaps possess the same senses as humans although
hearing is slightly inferior to humans; their stereo
perception is somewhat limited due to having no
external ear structure. Eyesight, smell and taste is
comparable to humans.

Bwaps have the ability to regenerate their limbs and
tails repeatedly. This is an evolutionary advantage
that Bwap ancestors used as a defence mechanism to
escape predators. When in danger, Bwap ancestors
were able to drop their tail to confuse predators. In the

Certain types of injury can prevent regeneration
from occurring, such as damage from fire or acid.
Additionally, on rare occasions, some Bwaps
are born with the inability to regenerate. In such
cases, injured Bwaps have had to resort to artificial
augments or cloned replacements to replace
their amputated extremities. Bwaps not able to
regenerate, regardless of the cause, are seen as
handicapped by others of their race.
Sex in Bwaps is determined by the combination of ZW
chromosomes; males possess two W chromosomes
while females possess both a Z and W chromosome.
Additionally, temperature can affect the sex of a
Bwap while it is still developing in the egg. Lower
temperatures will produce males while higher
temperatures produce females. When eggs are allowed
to develop naturally at the body temperature of the
mother, the chance of female offspring developing is
only 30%. Bwaps never manipulate the temperature of
eggs intentionally to produce a specific sex but outside
conditions such as humidity, heat, stress, exercise and
health can have an effect on a female’s body which can
affect the sex of her young.
The reproductive organs of the Bwaps are internal in
both the male and female, sharing a single vent (known
as a cloaca) with the digestive tract. Fertilisation occurs
internally and the female lays a single soft shelled nonamniotic egg. Multiple eggs are not unheard of, with
two eggs being uncommon and three eggs rarely laid.
The eggs are incubated by the female in her pouch until
they hatch. The young are practically helpless when
they first hatched, being blind with limbs not completely
developed. The mother does not produce milk but
excretes a nutritious mucus from pores in the pouch
that the young is able to ingest easily. At four weeks of
age the young Bwap has developed sufficiently to leave
the pouch intermittently for short periods of time. At this
point, the mother stops producing the nutritious mucus
and instead provides food to the young that has been
chewed into an easily swallowed paste and passed
directly mouth-to-mouth.

The Bwaps

Skin bears a distinctive pattern and colouring, which is
unique to individuals but similar on those who belong
to the same crèche; each crèche bears different
patterns and colours. The pattern is determined by
genetic factors but colours are influenced in part by
genetics and partly by careful manipulation of the
mother’s diet during the development of the egg before
it is laid. Bwap skin is significantly more porous than
that of many other sophonts, allowing them to absorb
some of the oxygen they require through their skin
but also makes them susceptible to losing moisture
quickly and must be kept constantly damp. Bwaps feel
uncomfortable in humidity less than 98%. With special
clothing they can exist comfortably indefinitely in
humidity as low as 25% as long as they have adequate
drinking water. In conditions of less than 25% humidity,
Bwaps must rely on sealed environment suits or
spray their skin with water every few minutes. If these
conditions are not met, the Bwap’s skin will quickly dry
out leading to inflexibility, painful lesions, dehydration
and ultimately, death.

case that they were captured by a limb, the ancient
Bwap could also drop the limb, leaving the predator
occupied with the twitching limb while the Bwap
escaped. The skin, muscles, blood supply, nerves and
bones separate safely, leaving a sealed stump in its
place. While the loss of a tail or limb was natural, it
was not without cost to the ancestral Bwaps, requiring
additional calories and energy resources to regrow
the lost limb. Modern Bwaps have lost the ability to
voluntarily discard their limbs or tail but retain the ability
to regenerate lost extremities given time.

229

