T

LIFESPAN

Bwaps have a shorter life expectancy than humans,
with most living to approximately 65 or 75 years of
age. There is no appreciable difference between the
lifespans of males or females. Bwaps are able to take
anagathics but most find them to be distasteful and
going against the principle of the Wapawab philosophy.

DIET

The Bwaps

Bwaps enjoy an omnivorous diet consisting primarily
of vegetable matter with small amounts of protein
such as fish, insects and amphibians. With the advent
of agriculture, Bwaps discovered that preparation
improved the taste of food and aided in the absorption
of nutrients. Before the use of fire, Bwaps relied on
brining or soaking foods in mild acidic solutions as a
means of preparation, while salt was used to preserve
meat. With the discovery of fire, Bwaps utilised it
somewhat in cooking but preferred to maintain their
more traditional food preparation techniques. Exposure
to an interstellar community and trade brought new
types of alien food as well, many of which were
introduced into Bwap diet, although Bwaps do not enjoy
alcoholic beverages of any sort. Sauces were brought
to the Bwaps by the Vilani and were enthusiastically
adopted into their cuisine. Terran foods such as lobster,
caviar, kale, bok-choy, wom-bok and asparagus are
widely enjoyed by Bwaps.

230

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

BWAP FOOD

As new foods were introduced to Bwap culture,
Bwap cuisine was introduced to the stellar
community.
Examples of Bwap delicacies that are often
enjoyed by other sophonts include:
Appepa-tep: A fat purple worm with bright pink
mottling and sharp mandibles that make eating this
delicacy live slightly hazardous. Traditionally served
live but can be cooked in a variety of ways.
Bapawa-a-a-bap: A large purple fruit with thick
skin, pink sweet flesh and a bitter, jelly-like stone
served with a savoury sauce.
Dawa-daw Shoots: Brined shoots of the nawnaw tree with crunchy outside bark and soft
undeveloped leaves within that have the texture of
cheese and the flavour of candied anchovies.
Kabapa-kapa-wapapab Grub: Fat spherical
grubs with three tentacles served live.
Kekepabweke-a: Thick brown vegetable pod
served pickled and jellied in the bitter juice of the
wak-a-wekapak fruit.
Pawbawa-a-pawa: An astringent marsh grass
served pickled in kappa-bawabaw mucus and
accompanied by raw reepa-reep eggs.
Reepa-reep Eggs: The eggs of the reepa-reep,
eaten raw or pickled.
Wak-a-wekapak: Pulpy red fruit with many large
seeds and bitter juice, eaten raw or the juice used
as a pickling agent.

R

