SOCIETY

Bwap society is centred on the crèche, or Attawapawab, which can be considered analogous to a
nursery and boarding school where young Bwaps
are sheltered, fed and trained in the customs and
traditions of their clans. They are also provided with
the technical skills and education necessary to be a
productive member of an interstellar community. Bwaps
are considered mature at 14 years and at that point
enter a four year period of intense testing and training
to determine how they properly fit into their place in the
universe. At 18 years of age a Bwap is considered fully
mature and may enter into an occupation or pursue
further education depending on the results of their
earlier training and testing.
Bwaps who have become too old or infirm to pursue their
former career or have chosen to retire, normally between
the ages of 55 and 65 standard years, are also sent to
the crèches where they act as teaching assistants, babysitters and spiritual advisors to juvenile Bwaps.
Crèches can come in many sizes ranging from a small
affair supporting only a few dozen Bwaps to enormous
organisations serving hundreds of thousands of Bwaps.
The crèche is where the Satha-a-atta-wabapawab
(Elders of the Crèche) sit. The Satha-a-attawabapawab serve their crèche by combining aspects
of mentors, seekers, diplomats and philosophical
leaders. One of their primary duties is to teach young
Bwaps about the Wepawab philosophy, which governs
a Bwap’s existence. Additionally, Satha-a-attawapawab provide mediation and guidance for crèches
and explore nearby worlds to gather information and
experience that will aid their people and the pursuit
of the Wapawab. To make matters more confusing,
Satha-a-atta-wapawab is the same term given to
informal groups of elder Bwaps that serve as leaders,
high government officials and the repository of ‘law’ (the
traditional way of doing things).

FAMILY
Bwaps do not hold family relationships in any high
regard, feeling their position in the clan and crèche
has greater importance. They consider their ties to
occupation, duty and crèche to be of overwhelming
importance while viewing the relationship of parent and
sibling to be relatively insignificant. It is not that they
do not care about their family relationships; they have
been taught from early childhood that the crèche and
clan is of far greater importance and the thought of
parents or siblings rarely, if ever, crosses their minds.
Bwaps have no concept of marriage and no social
convention that resembles pair-bonding. Several adult
Bwaps may come together in what other races would
comprehend as a familial group, known as a ‘wapawab’
or just ‘wab’. To Bwaps, this form of wapawab is a
grouping of convenience and not of love or reproduction.
It is a network of individuals that live in the same
abode, support each other emotionally and share in
financial expenses. Like a marriage, the wab is a legally
binding institution and contracts are signed on the
commencement of such a grouping. Individuals may
join a wab with the consent of a majority of the existing
members or leave in accordance with their contract,
taking what possessions they entered into the grouping
and a share of assets and debts accrued as a group.

THE WAPAWAB

Originally the Wapawab referred to a collection
of loosely-connected creches, forming a clan or
tribal group, which approximated the city state in
other cultures. To make matters more confusing,
there appears to be an infinite number of lesser
‘trees’, also called wapawabs (lowercase w).
Wapawabs can consist of only a few individuals
or many and ultimately billions in the case of
the ultimate Tree of Life. Even non-Bwaps may
belong to some wapawabs.

The Bwaps

Females in Bwap society are held in high regard. The
natural reproductive processes of Bwaps will only result
in a female 30% of the time, making the population
heavily-biased towards the male. This has resulted in
females being protected and rarely seen in public. Nearly
all females reside in the crèches where they assist in
the raising and educating of the young, act as record
keepers, assistants to the Elders and similar tasks.
Only females that are, for whatever reason, unable to
reproduce tend to be found outside the crèche.

Crèches form the centre of a Bwap’s identity and they
never leave their crèche voluntarily; to even consider
leaving a crèche is believed to be a sign of profound
insanity. In rare cases, a Bwap is forcibly expelled from
their crèche but this is always as the result of extreme
criminal behaviour. When this does occur, the records
of the Bwap's existence in the crèche are wiped clean,
essentially removing the individual from existence. Those
who suffer such an ejection are viewed as ‘unclean’,
outcasts and no longer a member of the Bwap race.

231

