T

Reproduction, on the other hand, is a function of
the crèche. Every year, the crèche elders (Satha-aatta-wapawab) come together to decide on breeding
pairs for that mating season. This process requires
the meticulous examination of genealogical records,
medical records, previous breeding partners and
resultant offspring to ensure that the best possible
genetic outcome is obtained and close relatives are not
inadvertently paired. When the matched pair are ready,
mating occurs in a private mud bath within the crèche.
Once mating has been successful, the pair separate
and the father generally has nothing more to do with
the mother or offspring in a paternal role.

BELIEFS

The Bwaps

Bwap society is based on the Wapawab philosophy
that dominates their lives. While not a religion in the
normal sense, it governs almost every aspect of the
Bwaps’ lives and is followed with an intensity normally
reserved for religious beliefs in other cultures. The
philosophy holds that each individual has a place in
the clan or pawab (tree).

232

The literal tree is an important part of the ecology,
intimately connected to the planet and providing food
and shelter for hundreds of different species, providing
the Bwaps with materials, absorbing carbon dioxide
and releasing oxygen, converting sunlight and minerals
to sustain itself and so on. The figurative tree, called
the Wapawab or Tree of Life, is harder to describe. The
term has its origins in the Bwaps’ primordial habitat
but has been expanded to include a place of work or
duty, native country, planet and bloodlines. Loosely
translated, the Wapawab details the Bwap’s place and
occupation within the crèche, which identifies their
place and part in the planetary society and ecosystem,
and then interstellar society, and finally the cosmos.
Everything Bwaps do reflects this complex wheelwithin-wheels, patterns-within-patterns point of view.
Each individual is raised and educated to value and
take great pride in being a small cog in the greater,
ever-changing, growing and expanding universe of
interlocking cogs and patterns.
Bwaps have no concept of a spiritual soul. They
believe that after death the energy and matter they
are composed of is absorbed by the Tree of Life and
redistributed among Bwaps yet to be born. There are
no particular funerary customs except for those specific
to each clans’ tradition. The clan members ensure the
body is buried as soon as is practical after death. Some
clans practice cremation with ashes scattered in the
nearest undeveloped area, usually a jungle or swamp.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Those born with full webbing between their fingers
are believed to be marked for some special purpose
despite the webbing being removed as soon as
possible. It is up to the individual Bwap to discover
and determine what that future will be, perhaps with
assistance from instructors and elders.
Like most intelligent species, each Bwap is an
individual and interprets the Wabapwab differently
but even the most independent of Bwaps reveres the
philosophy and their place in the universe.
Considering the subtleties of Wapawab philosophy and
the mysterious workings of Bwap bureaucracy, Mahaban
and other Bwap dominated worlds are difficult places
for inexperienced humans to operate in or do business
with. Regulations, traditions, policies and philosophy all
blend together in every day Marhaban life and Bwap
predilection for doing things the proper way means that
the perceived level of legal coverage and administrative
oversight seem greater and more confusing on Bwap
worlds than in any other Imperial system.

RITUAL

Bwaps are highly focused on, and some would say
obsessed with, minutiae, ritual and proper conduct.
Driven by this desire to ensure that everything is in
its proper place, Bwaps make excellent bureaucrats,
officials, mathematicians and scientists. This fixation
is what makes them such highly prized employees in
corporations and governments throughout Charted
Space. Bwaps seek this perfection in the organisation
of everything they do and to do otherwise would disrupt
the efficient functioning of their part of the universe.
All Bwaps are motivated to ensure that nothing in their
lives, be that public, private or personal is out of place
or disorganised. Furthermore, Bwaps believe that it is
only through their direct action that they can bring order
to the universe and it is their priority to see universal
order achieved.
Their obsession with ritual and proper conduct make
Bwaps difficult to deal with. The way they greet each
other is viewed as overly chatty and long-winded by
non-Bwaps but essentially imparts ‘I am in this place
and doing this job to keep the Cosmos operating
properly. Where are you and what do you do to keep
the Cosmos operating properly?’ Those who go
against the ‘proper way of doing things’ will often find
themselves lectured at great length on the importance
and proprieties of doing things in the correct and proper
fashion. Dealing with Bwaps can be time consuming
but trying to hurry a Bwap will only cause both parties
aggravation and frustration, taking up even more time.

R

