Mud bathing is an important Bwap ritual, playing a
major part in their culture and society. Mud bathing is
one of the most common daily activities in Bwap lives
and practiced across the entire strata of Bwap society
be they cleaners, businessmen, bureaucrats, officials
or elders. Mud baths range the gamut of small rooms
intended for the use of just wapawab members and
their guests, to large public buildings open to all. While
many sophonts think of bathing as a private affair,
Bwaps see the mud bath as a meeting point, a place
of discussion, business and politics. Elders will gather
in the mud baths to deliberate over issues at hand,
form alliances and debate mating pairs. Merchants
will haggle and seal deals in mud baths while others
will relax and unwind from a long day’s work. Rumour,
knowledge and power are all valuable currencies and
complex ritual revolves around mud bath interactions.
It is rare for those who are not knowledgeable in Bwap
interaction to be invited to the baths.

CONSERVATISM
Bwaps are a conservative race. Innovation is not
something they seek and they are not known for
inspiration or leaps of intuition. This conservative nature
can be seen throughout the Bwap race. Even Bwap
communities that have been isolated for hundreds
of years, as occurred during the Long Night, were
discovered to have hardly changed their social structure,
language or philosophy, even if they had fallen back into
barbarism. This has led some researchers to consider
that Bwap conservatism is in at least some part genetic.

GOVERNMENT

The Atapas-atta-wapabab (the Great Council of
Crèches) presides over the formation and continued
existence of Bwap crèches. Imperial authorities view
the Atapas-atta-wapawab more as an administrative

All public officials, judges, bureaucrats, inspectors and
so on are appointed by the Great Council of Crèches
with no terms of office, no elections, no checks or
balances, in fact no limits on power at all except for the
Bwap adherence to clan and tradition. This may seem
a chaotic way of doing things to outsiders but the sense
of tradition among Bwaps holds the weight of law and
it is almost unheard of for officials to take advantage
of their positions. A Bwap who feels they are no longer
able to ‘fulfil their part to keep the cosmos operating
properly’ will resign their position and retire.
Another wide-ranging Bwap organisation is the Wewakaatapas or Council of Seemly Order. In the distant past of
Marhaban, the Council of Seemly Order would be best
described by other races as a religious order, serving
as the overseers of ethics and right thinking. Over the
centuries since contact with the Vilani, the Council of
Seemly Order evolved due to the influence of Vilani
bureaucracy and business structures. The Council
gradually took on the responsibilities of managing the
bureaucratic and accounting practices as observed by
the Bwaps. Since the Bwaps became heavily involved
in Vilani bureaucracy, the Council of Seemly Order
expanded its portfolio to include the overseeing of
generally accepted accounting practices within the Ziru
Sirka, the Rule of Man and eventually the Third Imperium.

JUSTICE
Criminal behaviour is rare among Bwaps. They
consider it the worst form of mental illness, primarily
because it disrupts the proper order of things. Their
definition of crime however can differ somewhat
to the Imperial norm. The elimination of disruptive
criminal behaviour is seen as a good thing, even if that
means the death of the culprit. Fortunately, Bwaps
are often satisfied with exiling non-Bwap criminals,
be that offworld, out of the system or even beyond
the subsector. Bwap criminals are subjected to
severe mental conditioning to cure the mental illness
and return them to their proper place in society as a
responsible and contributing member.

The Bwaps

Bwaps have no official over-arching governing body.
Each Bwap planet governs itself without recourse to
other worlds apart from the sense that they all follow
the same set of general principles. Planets that are
completely controlled by Bwaps are designated with either
Government code 11 (non-charismatic dictatorship) or 13
(religious dictatorship) because the Bwap world view and
philosophy is pursued with such vigour. Law Levels are
also equally high, typically Law Level 10+, with high levels
of official harassment of citizenry reflecting the Bwaps
obsession with ‘proper’ behaviour.

department within Bwap culture than an actual political
entity and therefore have allowed it to exist without
outside interference. A popular misconception is that
the Great Council only rules Marhaban and the nearest
colonies but has jurisdiction over all Bwap crèches no
matter how near or far they are.

233

