T

DRESS, ART AND ARCHITECTURE
Bwaps have no taboos concerning nudity and only
require clothing as a way to keep their skin moist, a
means of identification and a source of pockets to
store necessary equipment. Bwaps normally wear a
comfortable loose-fitting kaftan-like garment covering
most of the body and a hood or covering for the head,
a garment consisting of three layers; an internal layer
permeated with a network of fine tubes through which
water flows to keep the skin moist, an intermediate
water-proof layer that prevents moisture from
evaporating and keeping the outer flowing layer dry and
an outer layer coloured with a stylised representation
of the individual’s body markings as the recognition of
body patterns is an important aspect of the greeting
ritual. In occupations where the Bwap must handle
objects that can be damaged by moisture they wear
long thin waterproof gloves covering their arms and
hands. In extremely dry conditions Bwaps carry a mist
sprayer with which to moisten their face.
Like the kaftan, all additional clothing, vacc suits, hostile
environment suits and other body coverings are coloured
in the stylised pattern of the Bwap’s body markings. The
only exception to this is military combat uniforms that
maintain the need for camouflage and concealment.
This makes Bwaps’ clothing highly individual and Bwap
vacc suits, hostile environment suits and other outfits are
slightly more expensive as a result. Full dress military
uniforms are permitted to have some individual markings
to help identify crèche and clan.

The Bwaps

Art and architecture, like everything associated with
Bwaps, follows a traditional and socially accepted style
that has remained essentially unchanged for thousands
of years. Painting, drawing, sculpture and architecture
all have standard protocols that are followed precisely
by Bwap artists.

234

Sculpture and other three dimensional art forms are
quite formal and aim to reproduce the real world,
although they do convey an idealised version of their
subject. Paintings and drawings attempt to provide the
most representative aspects of each element in scenes
rather than attempting to create vistas that replicate the
real world. The use of colour is also conservative, with
specific rules on how and when it is to be used, which
colours may appear in the same composition, which
media can be used together and even the method in
which pigments are obtained and manufactured.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Bwap artwork is easily identifiable to even the least
dedicated student of interstellar arts. Other cultures
often view it unfavourably, finding it to be static, formal,
strangely abstract and lacking in perspective. Despite this,
Bwap art has developed a dedicated following, especially
among the Vilani who appreciate the conservative nature
of the depictions. There are plenty of collectors who will
pay top Credit for original Bwap artworks.
Architecture follows two schools of thought. The first,
and most popular, is an organic style that blends
with the environment, being part of and not apart
from nature. This style is found on planets most
suited to Bwaps. Building shapes are those that are
found in nature, organiform, with the dome being the
most common form. Externally, buildings are most
often covered in a scaffold-type pattern similar to
the structure found inside the hollow bones of birds.
Additionally, the exterior of buildings are designed
to support plant-life growing on them. Internally,
structures are designed to emulate in function if not
necessarily in style the ancient burrows that Bwaps
originally inhabited. Convoluted, winding passageways
leading to various rooms for both shared and private
use. Larger rooms are supported by columns made to
resemble root-like structures. Sharp corners are never
encountered either internally or externally.
The second architectural school of thought is one found
on worlds or habitats not ideal for Bwaps. This style is
clearly artificial with no attempts made to blend into the
environment. The style is still organic in nature but the
form is less strict, allowing the appearance of sharp
angles and corners where necessary. Internally, this style
still utilises winding burrow-like designs of the first school.

CITIES
There are no Bwap cities outside of those planets
that are totally controlled by them. These cities can
be found in two distinct styles. Those located on
worlds suitable to Bwap requirements are carefully
designed to impact the environment as little as
possible. Populations are kept relatively small, pollution
maintained at a minimum level and heavy industry
located offworld. Conservation of the environment is
of high importance and cities appear to be part of the
natural landscape as opposed to artificial constructs.
With the advent of suitable gravitic technology, skycities became common in an attempt to reduce any
negative effect on native ecologies further.

R

