On worlds that do not meet the Bwaps’ environmental
needs, cities can be large and sprawling affairs, with
little attention paid to the effect it may have on the
environment. Artificial means are used to increase
heat and humidity, and often the cities are enclosed
or sealed in some way. In these environments,
archologies are a favoured housing system.
Bwap archologies and sealed cities often have
amazingly complex environments of their own. Nearly
all have artificial swamps complete with animals and
plants imported from Marhaban to allow Bwaps to
reconnect with their natural habitat, as a reminder of
where they have come from. In some cases, just like on
Marhaban, it can be difficult to ascertain exactly where
the artificial swamp ends and the city begins.
In larger starports and major planets, particularly along
the x-boat routes, there will be a ‘Bwap Quarter’ where
Bwap employees make their homes either temporarily
or permanently. These quarters are normally the
province of a single crèche and will have its own elders,
nursery, artificial swamp and whatever else Bwaps

require for a ‘proper’ home environment. They require
little in the way of unusual habitations other than high
humidity and occasional fungal treatments.

BUSINESS

Bwaps will come together on business ventures,
forming corporations and organisations, but these
normally remain small and local. There are no Bwap
megacorporations, primarily because no Bwap has
ever concluded that the cosmos requires one. Bwap
entrepreneurs throw themselves whole-heartedly –
some would say obsessively – into their business
ventures to the exclusion of all other activities, except
where their place in the universe requires that they
do otherwise for a time. The concept of a vacation
is almost totally foreign to Bwaps. This is not to say
that they do not rest, as they need to sleep and relax
like other races, although their form of relaxation may
seem surprising; doing something like bookkeeping is
relaxing to a Bwap. Their entrepreneurs are seen as
driven and single-minded by almost everyone else.

The Bwaps
235

