T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

BWAP SCRIPT

THE MILITARY
The Tap-a-wewaka-atapas (Guardians of Order) serve
as the observational and enforcement arm of the Grand
Council of Crèches and holds great power over crèches
and worlds despite having no official Imperial sanction.
The Guardians of Order are the protectors and
wardens of Bwap-dominated planets, acting first and
foremost as a military defence force. When the Atapasatta-wapawab requires information or enforcement of a
decision, it is the Tap-a-wewaka-atapas that takes that
direction and transforms it into reality.
The Guardians of Order are not broken up into
separate services, although they are given individual
training. So, the Guardians of Order contain navy, army,
marine, police and emergency forces in a unified arm.

LANGUAGE AND NUMBERS

The Bwap language, Wawa-pakekeke-wawa (literally
‘sounds of knowledge’), has been described as thick and
melodic, the words sounding like the plops of bursting mud
bubbles. It is not unpleasant to listen to but proves to be
rather difficult for other races to master. Conversely, Bwaps
have little trouble learning the languages of others, although
their accent can be thick and a little hard to understand.

The Bwaps

The language has only two vowels and 12 consonants as
well as a click represented by ‘-’ in Anglic. Wawa-pakekekewawa is the only living Bwap language, although there are
several minor dialects of interest only to scholars. Several
languages were in existence prior to Vilani contact but
their use was quickly superseded or absorbed into Wawapakekeke-wawa and died out in the Long Night.
Verbs are always placed at the end of a sentence, making
a running translation of the Bwap language difficult; the
entire sentence needs to be heard or read completely
before the full meaning can be ascertained. The difference
between ‘Your cargo manifest correct’ and ‘Your cargo
manifest correct not’ illustrates this problem perfectly.
Mechanical translations of the Bwap language tend to be
slower than others as a result, further exasperating the
difficulty of dealing with Bwap bureaucrats.
Bwap modules for electronic translators are available
wherever Bwaps are common.
Names tend to be long, reflecting the Bwap desire to
specify exactly where everything goes and how it relates
to everything else. Other races tend to shorten names
(much to the Bwaps displeasure) to make them easier to
pronounce and deal with during normal conversation.

236

The Bwap language uses two different alphabets.
The first is called Fathpebwewa-bwapawepa; a
highly ornate and decorative alphabet with over
4,000 characters, which represent individual letters,
words, emotions and concepts. The alphabet is used
exclusively for formal occasions or official documents.
Fathpebwewa-bwapawepa is extremely difficult for
non-Bwaps to learn and only a handful of distinguished
linguists grasp it in its entirety.
The second alphabet is call Bawewa-bawap. It has a
far more utilitarian form and contains only 15 letters.
This alphabet is used on a day-to-day basis and is
easily learnt by other races.

BWAP MATHEMATICS

Bwaps have four digits on each hand and on each foot,
leading to the development of a base-16 or hexadecimal
numbering system (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, A, B, C, D, E, F, 10,
11, 12, and so on). In the decimal system, each decimal
place is a factor of 10, whereas in the Bwap method,
each hexadecimal place is a factor of 16.
Hexadecimal is an elegant mathematical method where
units are evenly divided with no need for fractions.
The Bwap hexadecimal system rapidly became the
standard method used for accounting and record
keeping within Imperium government departments.

HISTORY
Bwaps are renowned for their record keeping. Before the
advent of the Long Night, their historical record stretched
unbroken to the earliest days of their civilisation.
Unfortunately, the collapse of the Rule of Man brought
with it a commensurate collapse of technology and many
historical records were lost. This was a devastating
blow to Bwap culture and they struggled to regain what
they had lost. Much of what they have reconstructed,
particularly from their early history, has been recovered
from archaeological digs and they continue to this
day to regain records they once had of their past. The
Third Imperium is at the forefront of this research and
a number of educational institutes and prestigious
universities assist in this endeavour.

PREHISTORY
Bwaps evolved from aquatic omnivore amphibianoid
ancestors that made their homes in burrows between
the roots of mangrove-like trees in the prehistoric
swampy jungles of Marhaban. The evolution of the
pouch and the soft-shelled egg removed the need for
water to raise their young and enabled Bwaps to move

R

