A BWAP GLOSSARY
Pewakwa: The time alone a pair of Bwaps spend
before mating.
Pefoba: Stars.
Peka-wapawab: Informal name for the Bwap
homeworld.
Pepasa-babbaba: Rain.
Pe-wapawab-pefoba: Constellations, traditionally
the ‘patterns in the night sky’.
Reepa-reep: Winged reptile native to Marhaban
often kept as pets.
Satha-a-atta-wabapawab: Great Council of
Crèche, leaders, government officials.
Tabbe-e-a: Lighting.
Taesweb: Ceremonial staff-like weapon used by
the Tap-a-wewaka-atapas
Tapapath-a-a-pawatapas: Whip sword.
Tap-a-wewaka-atapas: Guardians of Order.
Bwap military.
Taswabwapeaspa: Professional or business term
for the Bwap homeworld.
Tatwawa: Food.
Te-wekath: Webbing worn on the body to carry or
store personal items.
Wa-bawapakerwa-a-a-a-awa-pawabawabawaba:
Formal name for the Bwap homeworld.
Wabwe-ebta-paseb: Swamp ambush predator
native to Marhaban.
Waebpo-sas-a-a-pase: Knowledge is not found
in Wapawab.
Wak-a-wekapak: Sprawling vine with deep green
leaves that bears an edible fruit.
Wapawab: The Tree of Life, a philosophy, a
grouping of Bwaps.
Wapawab-wea-fe: A scroll holding the writings of
the Bwap philosophy.
Wawa-ewa: A superstition. Traditionally an evil
spirit that stole the knowledge of the Wapawab
from sleeping Bwaps.
Wawa-pakekeke-wawa: Sounds of knowledge.
The Bwap language.
Wea-fe: Book. Traditionally a scroll.
Webebta: Loss of focus. Traditionally an evil spirit
that took one’s attention from the Wapawab.
Wepasab: Ceremonial armour.
Wewaka-atapas: Overseeing body of accountants.
Wawathwa-pabessab: Ritual. The proper way of
doing things in an ordered manner.
Waweta: Nonsense. Not making sense.

The Bwaps

Atkaseb: Kaftan-like robe interwoven with thin
pipes filled with water.
Atta-wapawab: Nursery, boarding school and
government facility.
Awahallapah: Large aquatic predator native to
Marhaban.
Awapabaw: Swamp.
Awapabaw-a-pawa-a: Ocean.
Awe-wa: Vilani.
Bapawa-a-a-bap: Thick trunked tree with blue
leaves. Bears a large edible purple fruit.
Bawapakerwa-a-a-awapawab: Bwaps: the
dwellers in the limbs of the Tree of Life.
Bawapkaerwa-a-awapa: A female Bwap.
Traditionally ‘life giver’.
Bawapakerwa-a-bawpa: A male Bwap.
Traditionally ‘not life giver’.
Bawabkaerwa-paaba-a: Humaniti, also any
sophont that is not Bwap.
Bawewa-bawap: Informal alphabet.
Dawa-daw: Bamboo-like swamp plant.
Depwethawa: Predator native to Marhaban.
Fathpebwewa-bwapawep: Formal alphabet.
Fewab-a-wewaka: Ceremonial staff.
Kabapa-kapa-wapapab: Spherical grub.
Kabkowekabkade-akasteb: Mental illness. A
criminal. Chaos.
Kabwadath-a-fepeab: Mountain.
Kapa-bawabaw: Herbivorous mollusc native to
Marhaban.
Kapsebe: Vargr, also a pirate.
Kekepabweke-a: Shrub-like plant with blue
leaves that bears an edible seed pod.
Kewabta-apab-wa: Armour. Traditionally the
ceremonial armour worn by the Tap-a-wewakaatapas.
Pa-a-bewsa: A hatchling, also a naive individual.
Paesab: A clutch or group of Bwap eggs.
Paesab-webab: A mud bath.
Pawab: Tree.
Pawbawepka: Domesticated predator native to
Marhaban.
Parawba: Domesticated riding and beast of
burden native to Marhaban.
Pawbawa-a-pawa: Marsh grass with long tangled
leaves that grows below the water.
Pawathe-a-webab-paesab: The ritual of mud
bathing.

237

