T

into trees to find food. They continued to return to their
communal burrows to rear their young. The development
of simple communication and co-operation led to the
beginnings of culture. Climate change saw the shrinking
of the swamps and forced Bwaps into increased
competition with other animals in the region, leading
to the evolution of sentience. The discovery of simple
stone tools, agriculture and animal husbandry gave
them a significant competitive advantage and led to the
formation of the first crèche groups.

EARLY CIVILISATION
As crèches grew larger and Bwaps ventured further
afield, it was inevitable that they would come into
contact with each other. Bwap psychology naturally
lends itself to cooperation and negotiation rather than
aggression, leading to the joining of individual crèches
to form the first tribes for mutual protection and the
nurturing of young. Armed conflict between tribes was
almost unheard of, preferring that each went their own
way if an understanding could not be reached.

The Bwaps

Fire, considered a crucial discovery for the growth
towards civilisation, was absent in the early period of
Bwap progress due to their environment and was not
discovered until quite late. Without fire, Bwaps had to
rely on cold-worked metal such as gold and copper
to create tools and weapons. Iron was not known to
the Bwaps except from random exposed deposits and
in the form of red pigment derived from iron oxide.
Despite this, Bwaps successfully formed several early
civilisations and the first cities grew as clans banded
together for mutual benefit. The ruins from this era
show that despite the introduction of modern materials,
Bwap culture and art has changed little over the length
of their civilisation. Statuary and art from this era,
for example, are almost identical in style to modern
examples and for this reason are considered highly
important by archaeologists of the Third Imperium.
With the discovery of fire came the working of metal,
the realisation that cooked food tasted better and the
beginnings of chemistry that allowed early settlements to
expand and develop rapidly into cities-states. City-states
soon came into contact with each other but with other races
this would often lead to war, the Bwaps discovered they
shared many ideals despite never having been in contact.
Bwap psychology naturally lends itself to cooperation and
negotiation rather than aggression, leading to the joining
of individual city-states to form nations. This led to further
co-operation and the sharing of knowledge and technology
between nations. Armed conflict was a rare occurrence.

238

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Bwap civilisation formed a world government as it
advanced to TL7 where it stabilised and remained for
hundreds of years until first contact with the Vilani.

VILANI CONTACT
The Vilani discovered the Bwap homeworld early during
their exploration of the Empty Quarter. The Bwaps
were quickly assimilated and their world given the
Vilani name of Lentuli. Exposure to the Vilani brought
a technological renaissance to the Bwaps and within
only 75 years had advanced into, and stabilised, at
a TL10 society. With their conservative outlook and
traditional attitude, the Vilani found kindred spirits and
useful allies in the Bwaps. Their attention to detail and
desire to follow protocol led to Bwaps being employed
within the retinues of senior Vilani nobles where they
quickly made themselves indispensable. Over the next
millennium this policy was extended to mid-level nobles
and administration of the Vilani bureau. The heartless
Vilani bureaucracy that ground other races into dust
lifted the Bwaps into a golden age and they filled every
position available to them, making them one of the
most wide-spread Minor Races in Charted Space.
The Consolidation Wars and formation of the Ziru Sirka
(Grand Empire of the Stars, historically known as the
First Imperium) saw no resistance from Bwaps who
viewed the empire as a natural ordering of the universe.
Considering the Bwap’s place within Vilani society, their
part in the administration of the Ziru Sirka was a perfectly
natural development for their race. They moved further
out into space, aiding the Vilani in their exploration and
governance of new territories and species.
As they grew in position and power, Bwaps were able to
find loopholes and exceptions to the restrictions of jump
technology imposed on other Minor Races and were
able to obtain permission to build their own fleet of jump1 vessels. The secret of the jump drive allowed Bwaps
to explore the stars under their own power. Colonists
first settled the world of Wesawek and then established
footholds on other new worlds. Merchants plied their
wares along the mains, finding new opportunities and
returning wealth to Lentuli. In less than 300 years Bwaps
were granted a license to build jump-2 vessels by the
Ishimkarun (Shadow Emperor), a privilege bestowed
on a Minor Race completely unheard of in the past and
never repeated again by the Vilani.
Co-operation between Bwaps and the Ziru Sirka would
continue until the discovery of a race of humans from the
planet Terra who resisted Vilani control and instigated
the Interstellar Wars, a series of nine conflicts that lasted
more than 200 years and eventually saw the demise of
the Great Empire of the Stars.

R

