JUMP TECHNOLOGY

The exact method that Bwaps used to obtain jump2 technology remains a mystery to this day. The
fact that the Shadow Emperor granted the race
a licence to build jump-2 drives was completely
unheard of and rumour prevails as to how it
was achieved. Some believe that Bwaps used
bureaucratic trickery to obtain the licence, where
others believe the Shadow Emperor provided the
technology as a reward for Bwap services to the
Imperium. Whatever the truth is, or even if the truth
is still known, is up for contention and if the Bwaps
know, they are keeping it to themselves.

THE LONG NIGHT

With the culmination of the Interstellar Wars and the
fall of the Ziru Sirka, a power vacuum was left that the
Terrans, now known as the Solomani, immediately
stepped into. This new era, the Rule of Man (historically
referred to as the Second Imperium or, less graciously,
the Ramshackle Empire), had practically no effect on
the Bwaps, who saw it as just the ‘proper’ unfolding of
events. The Solomani had no experience in running
an empire the size of the Ziru Sirka and relied on
Bwaps to assist in the administration of what they had
conquered. Even so, the Gushgus sector remained
ungoverned for nine years and interstellar commerce
dwindled to almost nothing. A new regional government
was established with the arrival of a Terran frigate but
the results were generally poor, primarily because
the new government had little experience. Only Bwap
worlds managed to regain their former positions but this
had less to do with the new governance and more to do
with Bwap obsession with order.

Bwap worlds were becoming increasingly subject
to Vargr pillaging during this period. The Solomani
government created more and more money to fight
off the incursions, which in turn caused inflation to
skyrocket and plunged many worlds into financial ruin.
Bwap worlds, used to strong Vilani economic policy,

Human worlds were not as lucky. In addition to
suffering runaway inflation and economic hardship,
the abolishment of the Vilani caste system proved to
be too much. Rebellion became almost as common
as Vargr incursions and with the conflict between the
Central Bank at Hub and the Bank of Antares, the Rule
of Man collapsed and the Long Night fell, seeing the
withdrawal of the Second Imperium and an increase of
Vargr corsair incursions.
Interstellar trade faded quickly during the Long Night
as travel between worlds became more difficult and
eventually stopped. Bwaps tried to hold onto the
advanced technology they had but as trade dwindled
and finally ceased, the materials they required to
maintain technology become impossible to source.
Many of the technological advancements Bwaps had
gained from the Vilani were lost. Marhaban was never
completely cut off from interstellar trade, with infrequent
visits by Bwap leaders, scouts and traders from within
the Vargr Extents. The majority of Bwap worlds however,
were isolated from each other for hundreds of years.
Most struggled just to survive in hostile environments
without the advantage of interstellar trade to supply what
their planets could not provide. Technology on Marhaban
finally stabilised at TL7 but other Bwap worlds slipped
further; some into barbarism and a few to extinction.
On many worlds, Bwaps suffered greatly from racism
and xenophobia. Crèches on human-majority worlds
were wiped out as they were seen as symbols of the
oppressive Vilani governmental structure. As the Imperial
governance fell, so did Bwaps as a symbol of that power.
On other, dryer worlds, crèches faded and died due
to a lack of technology needed to maintain the humid
environment they needed. This forced serious competition
with humans over water and led to a series of savage
wars and the destruction of those crèches that remained.
Once the Vargr Pillages had ended, the Bwaps of
Marhaban focused on regaining lost technology. Through
sheer stubbornness and determination, they managed
to claw their way back to TL10 and again returned to the
stars. Anticipating a warm welcome from other worlds,
the Bwaps were horrified to discover that not only was
their arrival on human worlds greeted with hatred and
xenophobia but also that the crèches they expected
to find had been eradicated. This forced the Grand
Council to turn their focus from continued technological

The Bwaps

Terran settlers eventually arrived in the area, the first
wave consisting of Solomani primarily of Arab descent.
It was during this time that Lentuli was renamed
Marhaban, the Arabic word for ‘hello’. These settlers
became the nobles of the area. Duke Mus’ad eventually
renamed the Gushgus sector the Empty Quarter after a
barren region from his native Arabia.

failed to adapt to this new reality and suffered badly.
However, through concentrated effort, the Guardians
of Order had grown strong enough to shield four
worlds from Vargr aggression while Bwap communities
established a stable ‘hard-money’ currency regime that
would outlast the Rule of Man.

239

