T

advancement to first the protection and then the
evacuation of all surviving crèches on human-dominated
worlds. Unfortunately, the Tap-a-wewaka-atapas could,
at best, only act as a stop-gap measure, protecting
crèches long enough to evacuate the females and young
but dooming those left to fend for themselves.
This stance came to a head when the Tap-awewakaatapas sought permission from the Grand Council of
Crèches to use orbital bombardment on those human cities
that threatened crèches. The Council feared such a posture
would lead only to further human aggression and potentially
the extinction of the Bwap race. Despite strong opposition
from the Tapa-awewaka-atapas, their request was denied.
Through concerted effort, those crèches that could be
evacuated were saved and Bwaps returned to advancing
their technology. After considerable effort, Marhaban
slowly regained TL11 and jump-2 technology. The Grand
Council of Crèches decided to seek out all lost Bwap
colonies to ensure they were safe and that they continued
to follow the tenants of Wapawab philosophy.

The Bwaps

Brave and intrepid Bwap scouts faced barbarism
and xenophobia to discover their lost brethren, some
making journeys of legendary proportions. One
Bwap Traveller named Watwapebpepaeb crossed an
amazing 140 parsecs in a 200-ton, jump-2 starship to
bring the Bwaps of the Old Expanses up-to-date on the
last millennia of Atapasatta-wapawab rulings.

240

As Marhaban and Wesawek expanded further into
space, new trade routes were developed, bringing
with it renewed wealth and allowing Bwaps to regain
a level of technology on par to that of the last days of
the Second Imperium. This allowed the (re)founding
of new colonies on several planets. Other Bwaps
migrated to wealthy human worlds where their love of
bureaucracy and order was warmly welcomed. Each
of these colonies maintained a contingent of Tapawewaka-atapas; the lessons of previous centuries
not forgotten. Despite this, Bwap-dominated worlds
never created an interstellar government. The Grand
Council was only interested in the maintenance
of crèches and the adherence to the Wesawek
philosophy, not interstellar domination or control.
The arrival of Bwap scouts at Marhaban from the
Sylean Federation was seen as a cause of great
celebration. When the scouts arrived, they found
a functional starport, a thin but steady stream of
interstellar trade and a beacon of order. Sylean
Bwap scouts found that Bwap society was essentially
unchanged. Despite the collapse and return of

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

advanced technology and vast interstellar distances,
there was virtually no cultural or linguistic drift. Visits
from the Sylean Federation continued and in time
the Absaba-waketh-we-bapaaes Charter – a joint
trading venture between Marhaban and the Sylean
Government – was established, further weakening
the grip of the Long Night on the area and acting as a
shining beacon of hope and advanced culture.

THIRD IMPERIUM

With the declaration of Imperial Rule the Slylean
Federation became the Third Imperium, Marhaban had
become a minor trade nexus with the Sylean, Vargr
and Vilani. The Menderes Corporation traders routinely
made annual and semi-annual visits although most trade
was with Bwaps from the Vargr Extents. Satha-a-attawapawab (‘Elders of the crèche’) from every Bwap colony
with sufficient resources visited Marhaban to consult with
the Atapas-atta-wapawab for legal rulings and counsel on
matters of protocol and policy. The Tap-a-wewaka-atapas
protected Marhaban and a few nearby systems from the
now rare but still dangerous Vargr pirate bands.
Marhaban soon received an invitation to join the
third Imperium and accepted eagerly, followed by
every other Bwap dominated world. Quickly they
made themselves as indispensable to the new stellar
government as they were to the Ziru Sirka, stepping
into the same roles they once held.
Bwap presence in the Imperium was elevated when
A-estaka-sespa of the Sathwawafa Clan was selected
by the Emperor to govern as subsector duke. A-estakasespa was the first Bwap to be raised to ducal status
and one of only a few non-human dukes in the
Imperium. He used his position to petition the Emperor
to rename the subsector Lentuli in honour of Marhaban’s
Vilani designation and for the further glory of the Lentuli
family’s dynasty. The request was granted and the
subsector has been known as Lentuli ever since.
The advent of the Imperial Civil War saw chaos again
descend on the Bwaps and the dissolution of Imperial
governance in the sector saw the return of Vargr pirates.
For almost two decades, the Tep-awewaka-atapas held
the line and defended the subsector from the worst of
Vargr incursions. The conclusion of the war saw the
restoration of Imperial rule to the sector as well as the
edict that only Bwaps were to sit as subsector dukes of
Lentuli as a reward for their perseverance in maintaining
order throughout the absence of Imperial oversight.
The ducal seat of the Empty Quarter became vacant in
the last decade of the Third Imperium’s first millennium.
Upon the death of the heirless aging sector duke, the

R

