senior nobility could not agree on whom to select as a
successor. Eventually, it became obvious that none of
the human dukes or duchesses would allow any other
to rise to the sector throne. To prevent the interference
of the archduke, a meeting of senior nobility was
called to decide on a nomination for the sector seat.
This became an exercise of finding the least hated
noble to nominate, as opposed to the most popular or
qualified. With no other options available to them, the
sector peerage nominated Subsector Duke Dethwabtakebwebwakawa of the Bebewebboekebseb clan to
become the first Bwap sector duke of Empty Quarter,
on the proviso that he would name as his heir a human
of Solomani descent. The Emperor was delighted with
the suggestion and after weeks of discussions with
the Grand Council of Crèches and deep introspection,
Duke Dethwab-takebwebwakawa accepted the
position offered. While many human nobles of the
sector outwardly embraced the new duke, secretly
they were less than satisfied. Under the rule of the new
duke, Imperial law became increasingly inflexible and
enforced to the last subclause regardless of facts on
the ground. This strict adherence became to be seen
as arbitrary, untrustworthy and essentially tyrannical,
especially by the Solomani population.

Duke Dethwab-takebwebwakawa proved to be an
efficient leader, known for sticking strictly to the letter
of the law. During his reign, he was responsible for
reducing piracy in the Empty Quarter considerably,
not through overwhelming forces but his race’s natural
ability to see patterns within the order of things. On the
duke’s death, the sector throne fell to the heir of his
choice, one of Solomani decent as was stipulated.
Bwaps have spread to every corner of the Third
Imperium but are most common in the Empty Quarter.
The Bwap core worlds are places of intense, if not
maddening, bureaucracy but it cannot be denied that
without their expertise and desire for order, the Third
Imperium would be much worse for wear. Besides
Humaniti in all its diversity, Bwaps are one of the most
common races encountered within the Imperium and
can be found well beyond its borders. Corporations are
eager to add Bwaps to their payroll and governments
find them indispensable administrators. They have
become synonymous with excessive bureaucracy,
adherence to rules and a devotion to formalities.

BWAP TIMELINE
Event

-5000

Vilani-Bwap contact. Vilani arrive on Wa-bawapakerwa-a-a-a-awa-pawabawabawaba (Marhaban,
Empty Quarter 0426). The native Bwaps have a world-spanning society at TL7. The world was swiftly
assimilated by the Vilani and given the proper name of Lentuli.

-4925

Bwaps achieve TL10.

-4045

Vilani Consolidation Wars end and the Ziru Sirka, is founded.

-4000

Bwaps can be found among the retinues of senior Vilani aristocrats.

-3170

Lentuli given permission by the Makhidkarun Bureaux of the Ziru Sirka to build their own fleet of
jump-1 starships.

-3005

Colonisation of Wesawek begins.

-2800

The Ishimkarun (Shadow Emperor) of the Ziru Sirka grants the system of Lentuli a licence to
build jump-2 drives.

-2219

Terrans defeat the Ziru Sirka and found the Rule of Man.

-2145

Lentule is renamed Marhaban.

-1850

Tap-awewaka-atapas become strong enough to protect the four core Bwap worlds of Marhaban,
Wesawek, Tapawa and Ka-aswa from Vargr incursions.

-1850

Bwaps introduce a system of ‘hard currency’ that outlasts the Rule of Man.

-1776

The Rule of Man collapses and the Long Night quickly descends.

-1600

Marhaban and Wesawek’s technology stabilises at TL9.

-1500

Anti-Bwap purges begin on many human-dominated worlds.

-1300

Marhaban re-attains TL10.

-1300

The Grand Council of Crèches decides to contact scattered crèches.

The Bwaps

Date

241

