THE BWAP HOMEWORLD
Bwaps evolved on Marhaban (A5697AB-D), in the
Lentuli subsector of the Empty Quarter. The homeworld
of the Bwaps is occasionally confused with another
world of the same name located in the Lishun sector
which is a desert world completely devoid of moisture.
This has been a source of some puzzlement to casual
astrographic chart readers.
Marhaban was the name given to the system by the
Solomani but the word has its roots in the Arabic
language. The Bwap have several names for their
world including Wa-bawapakerwa-a-a-a-awapawabawabawaba, loosely meaning ‘small branch of
the large and great tree that floats in the endlessly vast
ocean’, Peka-wapawab, loosely meaning ‘beloved,
small branch of the great tree’, and TaswaBwapeaspa,
loosely meaning ‘fruitful branch of the great tree’.
Bwaps use each of the three names for their planet
under very particular circumstances. Wa-bawapakerwaa-a-a-awa-pawabawabawaba is only used on formal
occasions whereas Peka-wapawab is used only in an
informal manner. TaswaBwapeaspa is used primarily
in a professional manner when the Bwaps refer to their
world in a business sense.

GEOGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY

Marhaban is a rocky body with a molten core of iron,
providing the planet with a magnetic belt that protects the
surface from stellar radiation. The planet is remarkably
dense due to large quantities of metals deep within the
crust, producing a gravity of 0.78G. While Marhaban is
wealthy in metals, the majority are difficult to access due
to the depth at which they lie. The crust is divided into four
major tectonic plates and while still geologically active,
volcanic activity is not a common occurrence.
The surface is dominated by a vast shallow ocean with a
single significant continent, named Toawa-wap, several
archipelagos and a myriad of isolated small islands.
Both the islands and main continent tend to be wet and
swampy, with dryer hills or mountains further inland.
The area between swamps and mountains tends to be
swampy tropical jungles. The Bwaps evolved on the
main continent where most of the population still dwell,
although smaller settlements can be found on some of
the islands and in a few undersea archologies.

MAINWORLD DATA

Marhaban has a 21 hour day and a 358 day year,
which is remarkably close to the Terran standard.
Marhaban’s axial tilt is very small but its orbit is slightly
erratic leading to frequent (in geological terms) climate
shifts that have had a major impact on Bwaps and their
development. The planet has no moon but the suns
generate tides of 30–60 centimetres.
Marhaban has a warm and hospitable climate
with temperatures averaging 32oC and a sea-level
air pressure of 1.05 standard atmospheres. The
atmosphere is composed primarily of nitrogen, oxygen
and water vapour, with trace amounts of carbon dioxide
and other gaseous molecules making it breathable with
humidity averaging 98%. There are no major pollutants
or other oddities. Due to the high humidity, weather
patterns include a heavy amount of precipitation,
with rain occurring on most days throughout the year
depending on topographical and seasonal variations.

243

