NATIVE LIFEFORMS
Marhaban hosts a large and diverse ecosystem.
Organic life consist of right-handed amino acids, which
make them indigestible to most sophonts. This can
be remedied with easily obtained drugs available on
Marhaban and other Bwap dominated worlds. Animal
life is largely bilaterally symmetrical, consists of two
sexes and reproduce sexually. Exceptions occur, as in
every biosphere. Life is diverse and complex, showing
a long timeline of evolutionary development.
Not including pseudo-insects, the dominant lifeforms
on the planet are amphibianoids, which fill almost every
ecological niche. Amphibianoids have evolved into two
major branches: modern amphibianoids that possess
a pouch and lay a soft-shelled egg and primitive
amphibianoids that possess no pouch and require
water to lay their jelly enshrouded shell-less eggs.
Some primitive amphibianoids have made adaptions
to living in areas where water may be less abundant,
such as in hills and mountains. One such example is
the mouth-brooding amphibianoids, which swallow
their eggs as they are laid and raise young in pseudostomachs, ejecting them when they are large enough to
fend for themselves.
Scaled egg-laying reptilianoids are significantly fewer
in number than the amphibianoids and restricted to
the same ecological niches as birds on Terra, although
that niche is broad. Reptilianoids can be found all over
Marhaban, including the arctic. Mammalianoids are rare
and primarily occupy the niche of vermin. The ocean
contains a vast array of life including amphibianoids,
reptilianoids, piscinoids (fish), medusoids (jellyfish),
molluscoids, crustaceanoids and echinoids (sea urchins).

IMPERIAL NOBILITY

Baron Darius hault Nanjani-Shiidakii holds a fief in the
southern area of continent on Marhaban. He is rarely
found on Marhaban however, preferring to remain at
the court of the sector duke of Empty Quarter where he
serves in the Imperial Administration.

STARPORT
The Marhaban starport is one of the largest Class A ports
in the Lentuli subsector, second only to the massive
starport at Wesaswek. The port is a major trade centre
and a crossroad on the x-boat communication route. As
such, it is visited by millions of sophonts every year.
The highport orbits Marhaban in a geosynchronous
position above the equator of the main continent.
Constructed as a huge squat cylinder with a diameter of
four kilometres and four kilometres tall, it has four large
spheres, bisecting the cylinder in quarters, attached to
the outer rim. Each sphere is a kilometre in diameter,
making the whole structure six kilometres in diameter.
The ‘bottom’ of the port faces the planet while the top
faces the stars. From the centre of the top of the cylinder
juts the administration and traffic control towers.
From the centre of the bottom of the port extends the
space elevator with cars suitable for personnel and
cargo transport. Elevator cars arrive and depart at 10
minute intervals throughout the day and night.
Each sphere is used for docking purposes and local
administration. There is one sphere each for local
(in-system) traffic, interstellar traffic, a colonial navy
base and construction. All four have adequate room to
berth numerous ships up to 20,000 tons, with external
docking arms and clamps for larger vessels.
Internally, the highport is divided into individual,
self-sufficient districts such as public, commercial
and military docking, with multiple administrative,
residential, commercial, entertainment and industrial
zones as redundancy measures. Each zone has its
own life support, power and infrastructure, enabling it to
continue on its own in the case of isolation or damage
to other sections of the port.
Accommodation is available for transient populations,
ranging from cheap ‘capsule’ hotels to large and luxurious
hotels that boast the very best of amenities. The highport
also boasts a busy Travellers’ Aid Society facility and hostel.
Life support in the highport is set with Bwap comfort
in mind, so most other sophonts are likely to find the
temperature somewhat warmer than is comfortable and
the humidity to be almost suffocatingly high. Enclaves
have been set aside for the comfort of other races, with
the human enclave being the largest.

The Bwap Homeworld

Marhaban boasts several Imperial nobles. Marhaban is
the fief of Subsector Duke Wakate-takewaaka-paswa
of the Bebewebboekebseb clan. Duke Wakate has
only held his position for a few years since his father,
Duke Bwatatha-pathkavepaswa, retired and so still
relies somewhat on his father and the Grand Council
of Crèches for advice. The duke is highly respected by
Bwaps but not so much amongst some of the peerage,
who see him as just a token noble to appease the
Bwaps. He spends equal time on Marhaban and at the
court of the sector duke of Empty Quarter.

Dame Jinda Sachdev was awarded her fiefdom for
services to the Imperial Marines. Although retired,
she still serves in the capacity of chief of security on
Marhaban Highport.

245

