T

Floating outside the construction sphere, also in
geosynchronous orbits, are a large number of ship
construction yards. These open-frame structures are
brightly lit and used as secure platforms to construct
spaceships in orbit, with the largest able to construct
vessels up to 200,000 tons. Each structure also hosts
an administration station from which construction is
coordinated. Smaller vessels, from 1,000 to 5,000 tons
are built within the construction sphere of the highport.
The downport is located at the base of the space
elevator in the Westateawaekath mountain range on
the continent of Toawa-wap. The landing pads are built
on tall pylons that jut up around the base of the base of
the elevator, providing flat and stable landing platforms.
Cargo and personnel lifts provide access to downport
buildings from the landing pads. While only half as
extensive as the highport, the downport still boasts
many of the same facilities. Ship construction at the
downport is limited to vessels of 1,000 tons or less.
The downport is surrounded by an expansive startown
which has a Law Level 10, somewhat less restrictive
than the rest of the world but still extreme. Visitors are
advised to remain within the confines of the startown
unless absolutely necessary and accompanied with
a local guide. Even within the startown, a local guide
is advisable to assist in navigating the maze-like
bureaucracy and legal structure that the Bwaps favour.

The Bwap Homeworld

Compared to other startowns, Marhaban startown
is not terribly exciting; there are no legal casinos or
gambling of any sort, bars and restaurants do not serve
alcohol and recreational drugs of any sort are almost
impossible to find. Streets are actively patrolled by
Bwap police forces and criminal activity is uncommon.

246

The starport and startown are connected to other cities by
an extensive maglev system that delivers both goods and
people. Gravcar traffic is constant and busy but controlled
and closely monitored by the extensive traffic control
system. All gravcars are automated and tied into the traffic
control system, making accidents practically unheard of.
Offworlders are not permitted to use their own vehicles.
Several cities and businesses boast their own
spaceports. These are generally off limits to
Travellers and require complicated permits that are
difficult for offworlders to obtain.

TECHNOLOGY LEVEL

Marharban has a mature TL13, with some areas of
technology sitting at TL14, making it one of the most
technologically advanced worlds in the Lentuli subsector.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Weather control technology is at a TL14 level of
sophistication. The technology is able to reliably modify
weather patterns, control precipitation and temperature,
and mitigate risks such as cyclones and hurricanes.
On Marhaban, weather control is used to circumvent
climate change and prevent desertification. Other
worlds have used this technology to successfully aid
terraforming into more agreeable environments.
Computer technology is at an early TL15. Data storage
techniques, utilising holocrystals and data wafers,
are in high demand across the Domain and beyond.
True artificial intelligence and downloadable brain
supplementation is showing promising results.
Conversely, medical technology lags at a mature TL12,
primarily due to their ability to regrow lost limbs and,
to some extent, organs. Bwaps have made pioneering
research into growth quickening and nerve re-fusion
technologies for other races based on their own abilities
with great success.
All other technologies are at a mature TL13 level of
sophistication.

GOVERNMENT
Marhaban is listed as a non-charismatic dictatorship but
the truth of the matter is somewhat more complicated.
Technically, Subsector Duke Wakate-takewaaka-paswa is
the sole authority on the planet. In reality, Duke Wakate is
only an advisor on the Grand Council of Crèches and while
his opinions hold considerable weight amongst the elders
of the council due to his position, he is only one member
with an equal voice when it comes to decision making.
The Grand Council of Crèches can be seen as the
representative authority, acting on behalf of all crèches
not only on Marhaban but across the entire Imperium,
although this is a gross simplification of the role that
the Council takes. Membership is in no way voted on
or influenced by the public in any manner. The Council
itself nominates all new members into its fraternity and
membership lasts until the individual feels that they can
no longer perform the duties required and retires back to
their home crèche.
To confuse matters further, governmental authority
on Marhaban is divided among the Grand Council
of Crèches, the Council of Seemly Order and the
Guardians of Order, with each having control of their own
areas of expertise. There is no overarching authority, to
provide a set of rules and balances, which outsiders view
as extremely confusing but Bwaps have no problems
in understanding. The bureaucratic processes on the
planet are complex, intricate and difficult to navigate
without a Bwap guide to provide assistance.

R

