As the subsector capital, Marhaban also houses all
infrastructure and administrative apparatus necessary for
that task. The Ducal Palace is a sprawling affair built on
the island of Eakeebapebte in the southern hemisphere.
The walled palace maintains a Bebewebboekebseb
clan crèche, a spaceport for government officials and
visitors, living chambers for the duke, clan members and
employees. The duke has a personal force of huscarles
drawn from the Guardians of Order. The remainder of
the island contains other Imperial government offices
and buildings, embassies and support facilities.

LAW LEVEL

Naval forces are surprisingly large for a colonial force,
a holdover from the Long Night and the harassment
the Bwaps suffered at the hands of raiders and pirates.
The forces consist mainly of light cruisers, with backup
provided by several BatRons of heavy cruisers. A single
BatRon of Sasabease-wa-a class battleships act as a
heavy hitting force when needed. The colonial forces
are also supported by innumerable system defence
boats, patrol corvettes, couriers and tenders. Ships
are a combination of excess Imperial Navy vessels
and ships of Bwap design and manufacture. The naval
forces range from TL10 to TL13.

The legal structure on Marhaban is notably convoluted
(for outsiders) and inextricably intertwined with ritual and
the Wapawab philosophy. Weapons and armour of any
description are highly regulated on the planet and only
permitted to authorised forces. All drugs are restricted and
recreational drugs such as nicotine, cannabis, alcohol and
so on are prohibited. Live animal and plant imports are
completely prohibited. Entertainment is closely scrutinised
for its suitability to be introduced to the community. Adult
entertainment of any type is prohibited.

A large force of system defence boats perform the
majority of custom inspections, assisted by a small
number of patrol corvettes. Inspections are performed
on both incoming and outgoing vessels. System defence
boats range in size from 200 to 800 tons with an average
TL12. System defence boat bases have been built on
several of the other worlds in the Marhaban system and
a medium sized base is in orbit around the gas giant
Ebda to police against wild refuelling.

Starships not of Marhaban origin are not permitted to
land on planet except at the starport. Before docking,
visitors must present a bill of clean health; papers of
starship registration, crew and cargo manifests, and
astrogation data from the last four jumps. Customs
inspections are conducted electronically as ships
emerge from jump and approach the planet, physical
inspections through customs patrols before docking
and then again physical inspection by port officials on
docking. Finally, before being permitted to leave the ship
or unload cargo, the crew and ship must be subjected to
vermin eradicating procedures to ensure that no foreign
species are introduced to Marhaban’s ecosystem.

Marhaban is a rich world and also the subsector
capital. It has abundant resources, a labour force that
can be counted in the millions and a comprehensive
infrastructure. The planet is financially strong and holds
an important place in the economics of the subsector.
Exports range from raw materials to high technology.

MILITARY

Marhaban boasts a significant military force operated
by the Guardians of Order. Planetary forces consist of
three regiments, 15 battalions in total, two of which are
mobile lift infantry. Equipment for planetary forces is
cutting edge TL14, with elite forces being equipped with
TL15 weapons and armour, including battle dress.

The Bank of Marhaban is a powerful force throughout
the Lentuli subsector and stretching out into the Empty
Quarter. The bank provides finance for contracting
starships, large loans to businesses and monitors the
amount of money within the subsector.
Marhaban is best known for its export of TL14 weather
control technology, used across the sector and beyond
to make less than viable worlds habitable. Weather
control stations are not purchased but leased, the
massive systems shipped as parts and constructed on
site. Weather stations can only be crewed by Bwaps and
knowledge of weather control technology also restricted
to Bwaps. A lucrative spare parts and repair industry also
exists to support the maintenance of purchased stations.
Another major export of Marhaban is economic and
administrative expertise. Large personnel companies
have grown up around the Bwaps’ natural abilities in
these areas, which act as intermediaries in finding
skilled prospective employees or hiring temporary staff
for short term contracts.

The Bwap Homeworld

Due to the intricacies of the law and internal
bureaucracy, Marhaban is rated as an Amber Zone,
with visitors highly advised to remain within the
confines of the starport. It is recommended that any
Travellers intending to venture beyond the starport
seek a local guide to ensure they do not inadvertently
run afoul of any laws.

ECONOMY

Other major exports include copper, tin, iron,
electronics and software.

247

