T

R

DEMOGRAPHICS

As their homeworld, Marhaban’s population is almost
exclusively Bwap. There is a small human population
concentrated in the capital city with a few other human
populations located in the far north near the small arctic
zone. They are the descendants of Vilani corporate
personnel stranded on the planet after the collapse of
the Rule of Man, as well as some Solomani settlers
and colonial supervisors. These have been largely
subsumed into Bwap culture and society but do not
display all of the psychological and cultural values.

•

•

Within the startown can be found a more cosmopolitan
population but it is still predominately Bwap. Most
permanent inhabitants of other species prefer to live
within enclaves where they can pursue their own culture.
Within the startown, many species of sophont can be
found but most common beside Bwaps are humans and
Vargr, with the occasional Lutini and even Sydite.

CULTURE

The Bwaps of Marhaban are deeply traditional, more
so than any other Bwap dominated world. They see
themselves as the centre of Bwap civilisation, culture
and education. They are rightfully proud of their world’s
history and heritage, and how they had struggled and
endured during the Long Night to bring civilisation and
peace back to the Lentuli subsector.

The Bwap Homeworld

URBANISATION

248

The climatic shifts of Marhaban have limited the
population of the world. While modern technology
would enable Bwaps to modify their environment or
build huge comfortable archologies, this goes against
their philosophy of everything being in the right place;
hence they restrict themselves to living in the remaining
swamplands, taking great effort not to disturb or
damage the environment. Several large jungles have
been designated as nature reserves, allowing both
Bwaps and visitors to experience what the planet was
like before civilisation. A small number of archologies
have been built under the oceans but great care has
been taken to ensure they do not disturb the ecology.

PLACES AND EVENTS OF INTEREST
There are many places and events of interest on the
homeworld. A few are noted here:
• The first would undoubtedly be the space elevator
situated on the equatorial mountains of the major
continent. The elevator connects the Marhaban
downport with the highport in orbit. Travellers and

•

A

V

E

L

L

E

cargo are delivered to the planet’s surface via the
elevator. From the downport Travellers may remain
at the extensive star town or, with the correct
permit, venture further out.
During the last two weeks of spring, the plants
in the Pesabebawa-peba Valley release their
pollen into the air. Most of the pollen finds its way
into the river system within the valley, colouring
the water with a rainbow of hues and creating a
major tourist attraction.
Bawapakerawa-a-aperwapa-vilani-pa is a festival
held on the ninth day of the ninth month and lasts
for nine days. It commemorates the first contact
between Bwap and Vilani cultures. All businesses
on Marhaban close during these nine days as
re-enactments of the first contact play out across
every city. Fairs are common and representations
of the first Vilani visitors and their vessels are
paraded through the streets. The festival ends with
a rich feast of Vilani-inspired foods and a mock
battle involving coloured dyes that represent the
diversity that Vilani contact brought to Marhaban.
The capital city hosts a particularly vivid First
Contact festival annually in the central town square
where a giant monument of a Bwap and Vilani
bowing to each other is located. A temporary
fairground is constructed and stretch over several
kilometres. Attractions include a variety of markets,
entertainments, rides and re-enactments, the
most popular being the landing of the first Vilani
scoutship to visit Marhaban.

ANIMAL ENCOUNTERS

As Bwaps spread across Charted Space, they took
with them that which they found familiar. Wherever
Bwaps are found, even moderate numbers, there will
be animal and plant life from Marhaban to help them
feel comfortable, provide companionship and act as a
familiar food source. Animals native to Marhaban have the
same environmental requirements of high humidity and
relatively warm temperatures as Bwaps, which restricts
the number of locations in which they can survive.

NEW TRAIT
The following trait is new to Traveller and may be
applied to animals at the Referee’s discretion.
Aquatic: The animal is at home in the water but
unable to function on land and will begin to suffocate if
removed from the water. Its movement is not affected
underwater but its speed is reduced to 0m on land.

R

