AWAHALLAPAH

DEPWETHAWA

The awahallapah is a large marine primitive amphibianoid
found in shallow waters near lightly inhabited coastlines.
It resembles a prehistoric plesiosaur with an elongated
neck and six large flippers; four true flippers and a pair of
false flippers with a membrane that extends down to the
tip of the tail and used for territorial and courtship displays.
The true flippers are the awahallapah’s main form of
locomotion, using them in an alternating flapping motion
and giving the appearance of the creature flying through
the water. The tail is primarily a rudder but can also be
used defensively if needed. Short feathery gills extend
from the sides of the awahallapah’s head, giving it the
ability to breathe water.
Awahallapah are carnivorous, feeding on numerous small
creatures near the water’s surface or preying on larger
creatures that dwell on or near the sea floor. Its long neck
allows it to also feed on aerial lifeforms, snatching prey
mid-flight and swallowing it whole. An adult awahallapah is
able to easily take prey the size of a Bwap or human and
caution is advised to those visiting known hunting grounds.
The awahallapah is highly protected and anyone harming
or killing a specimen faces extreme penalties.

Depwethawa (known as ‘marsh lions’ to humans) are
primitive amphibianoid predators found in swamps
and shallow waterways. They have a large heavily
armoured head, long razor-sharp teeth, a low slung
furless feline-like body and long thick tail. Depwethawa
use their tails as their main locomotive force when
swimming, their limbs kept close to their sides and
occasionally used as rudders. The creature is an
ambush hunter, lying in wait just below the surface
for unsuspecting prey to approach before it launches
itself explosively at its target and then drags it below
the surface to drown and be consumed at its leisure.
Depwethawa have no fear and have been known to
aggressively attack prey many times their size. They
can be found even in heavily populated areas where
they can prove to be a significant risk. Areas known to
possess a population of depwethawa are cordoned off
and signs are liberally displayed to warn passers-by of
the danger. Depwethawa that become a serial menace
are relocated unharmed in less inhabited regions.

Hits

Speed

Hits

Speed

49

8m

Awahallapah

115

Depwethawa

10m

Athletics (endurance) 4, Recon 3,
Stealth 2

Skills

Skills

Athletics (strength) 3, Recon 3,
Stealth 4, Survival 2

Bite (5D), Tail Swipe (8D)

Attacks

Bite (4D)

Attacks

Armour (+2), Aquatic, Large (+6)

Traits

Traits

Amphibious, Armour (+8),
Heightened Senses, Large (+2)

Behaviour

Carnivore, Chaser

Behaviour

Carnivore, Pouncer

The Bwap Homeworld

Animal
Animal

249

