T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

PAWBAWEPKA
KAPA-BAWABAW
The kapa-bawabaw is a large semiaquatic molluscoid the
size of a Terran cow that lives in the swamps of Marhaban.
They have a thick yellow hide speckled with orange
markings and six eyes; two large eyes and four smaller
ones. Inside its wide shell-like mouth are three rows of
hardened ridges that the kapa-bawabaw uses to chew the
vegetation it lives on. Along its underside it has multiple
pairs of flipper-like pseudopods that it uses to propel itself
through water. In the water the kapa-bawabaw is a graceful
swimmer but on land it moves with an awkward humping
motion. The kapa-bawabaw was domesticated early in
Bwap history and are in general docile. The only exception
to this is when the hermaphroditic kapa-bawabaw come
into rut and become aggressive and territorial.

The Bwap Homeworld

Bwaps have a number of uses for kapa-bawabaw. They
use the mucus from the kapa-bawbaw’s hide as both
pickling agent and preservative in cooking, the fertilised
eggs are considered a delicacy and the hide, when
tanned and prepared correctly, is used as material
for clothing. Collecting the eggs is a risky endeavour,
as brooding kapa-bawabaw are extremely protective.
Primitive Bwaps would use the collection of kapabawabaw eggs as a rite of passage for young males
entering adulthood and the rite is still practiced today in
a less dangerous, figurative fashion.

250

The pawbawepka (known as a ‘salamander pug’ by
humans) is a medium-sized modern amphibianoid
carnivore that has become a companion animal to Bwaps,
although several related species remain in the wild.
Domesticated late in Bwap prehistory, pawbawepka serve
the same role for Bwaps that dogs do for humans. They
are the height of a medium dog with a brown hide covered
with blue markings, four short legs and a long flattened tail
that is used for motive force when swimming. Their face
is rather flattened, much like a Terran bulldog or pug, but
possess no external ears. They feed through the use of
a long sticky tongue that captures prey and draws it into
their mouth where it is chewed with several rows of sharp
teeth before being swallowed. Female pawbawepka lay
up to four eggs annually which she keeps in her pouch.
When the young hatch they remain in the pouch being
fed by their mother until they reach a month old, at which
point they leave the pouch. The pups may be removed
from the mother at this point but in the wild the young
remain with the mother for six months, learning how to
hunt and fend for themselves before they are chased
away to live a solitary life.
Pawbawepka are covered with a thick layer of fat,
which makes them look somewhat plump. Coupled with
their tendency to enjoy sleeping most of the day, they
are often mistaken as slothful creatures. In reality, while
a pawbawepka can sleep upwards of 18 hours a day,
they are capable of sudden bursts of speed that belies
their short legs and rotund appearance. Domesticated
pawbawepka are exceptionally affectionate with their
owner but tend to be aloof towards others.

Animal

Hits

Speed

Animal

Hits

Speed

Kapa-bawabaw

60

2m

Pawbawepka

8

7m

Skills

Survival 1

Skills

Athletics (endurance 2), Recon 1

Attacks

Bite (1D), Crush/Trample (4D)

Attacks

Bite (1D)

Traits

Amphibious, Large (+3), Armour
(+12), Slow Metabolism (-3)

Traits

Amphibious, Fast Metabolism (+1),
Heightened Senses, Small (-2)

Behaviour

Herbivore, Grazer

Behaviour

Carnivore, Hunter

R

