REEPA-REEP

PARAWBA

The reepa-reep is a small winged carnivorous reptilianoid
that has become popular in the wider stellar community.
Their scaled bodies exhibit a variety of shimmering
colours, with males more brilliant than the female.
They have two large eyes and a short snout filled with
needle-sharp teeth. Their two front limbs are prehensile,
which they use to assist with perching or manipulating
food, while the back legs have evolved into long narrow
wings much like those of a prehistoric pterodactyl. A thin
membrane of skin between their forelimbs and ribcage
act as stabilisers during flight along with a long rudder tail
and brightly coloured head crest. Reepa-reep do not have
the same stringent humidity requirements that Bwaps do,
allowing them to live in drier climates.
Reepa-reep are gifted mimics and known for their
boisterous and mischievous personalities. They bond
easily with their owner, especially if hand-reared, and are
inquisitive intelligent creatures easily-trained to perform a
number of tricks. Keeping a reepa-reep entertained can be
a challenge however, and when bored they can become
quite destructive. When startled or threatened, Reepa-reep
give a raucous alarm call heard for a significant distance.

The parawba (known as a ‘swamp-donkey’ by
humans) is a primitive amphibianoid used as a riding
animal and beast of burden. It has a long three metre
body with a four metre tail. The head is boomerang
shaped with its eyes located at the sides of the head,
giving it excellent peripheral vision but poor forward
vision. The head sports two frills starting at the top of
the nostrils at the front of the head and progressing
down to the thick neck where they join and then
end just over the shoulder blades. The tail is also
broadly frilled on both the dorsal and ventral sides.
Males have an additional frill that begins just after
the shoulder blades and extends to the end of the
tail. Males have larger frills than females, which are
brightly coloured to attract mates and act as threat
displays and also possess a throat pouch, which they
can expand to produce calls to attract mates and for
courtship displays. The legs are slightly splayed out
from the body and end in broad, webbed, three-toed
feet. The skin is smooth and soft. Female parawba
are drably coloured with a splotched pattern to aid in
camouflage in the swamps on Marhaban, while males
are brightly coloured in reds, blues and yellows.
The parawba is a strong swimmer, equally capable
on land and water. They are most comfortable living
along the fringes of swamps where they feed on
copious amounts of vegetation. Parawba will flee
into deeper water when frightened and can remain
submerged for extended periods of time until danger
has passed. If they are unable to flee, Parawba
will kick their attackers or use their tail to deliver a
surprisingly accurate and damaging swipe.

Animal

Hits

Speed

Parawba

42

7m

Skills

Athletics (strength) 1, Melee
(natural) 3, Survival 1

Attacks

Bite (1D), Kick (2D), Tail Swipe
(3D)

Alarm, Flyer (slow), Small (-3)

Traits

Amphibious, Large (+2)

Carnivore, Chaser

Behaviour

Herbivore, Grazer

Animal

Hits

Speed

Reepa-reep

3

5m

Skills

Athletics (dexterity) 2, Melee
(natural) 1, Recon 2, Survival 1

Attacks

Bite (D3)

Traits
Behaviour

The Bwap Homeworld

Parawba were first domesticated as riding and
draft animals in Bwap prehistory, becoming an
important form of transport until the development of
the internal combustion engine. The Bwap military,
primarily a defensive force that evolved from
warriors protecting their clans from predators, still
ride parawba during important ritual events. These
parawba are richly adorned and ridden by equally
adorned soldiers in elaborate parades.

251

