BWAP TRAVELLERS
Bwap Travellers follow the same procedures and
concepts as human Travellers, as detailed in the
Traveller Core Rulebook. Unless otherwise stated
in this chapter, use all the creation and career rules
described in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

BWAPS

Bwap Travellers have the following modifiers applied to
their characteristics: STR-4, END-4

TRAITS
Bwap Travellers all possess the following traits.
Regeneration: Bwaps are able to regenerate
amputated extremities. If a Bwap loses a limb or a
tail, it will slowly grow back, taking six months. The
limb or tail will be useless for this time as it develops
into a fully functional extremity. Amputated hands and
feet will only take three months to regrow back and
amputated digits take six weeks.
Social Norms: Bwaps have a very specific way of
thinking that can make certain actions more difficult
for them. They suffer DM-1 on the following skills:
Deception, Gambler, Persuade and Streetwise.
Structured Mind: Bwaps have very structured
minds, making some skills easier to learn than others.
Whenever a Bwap acquires Admin, Advocate and
Broker at level 0, it automatically becomes level 1
(making it impossible for a Bwap to have Admin 0 for
example, only Admin 1 or more). Any further levels in
these skills accumulate normally.

STARTING AGE
Bwap Travellers begin their careers at 18 years of age.
Untrained and inexperienced, they embark on a career
to gain new skills and experience. Each career term lasts
for four Imperial years. Bwaps age slightly faster than
humans and suffer an additional DM-1 on the Aging table.

TITLES
Bwaps do not have titles of nobility as humans of high
SOC do, nor do they have hereditary titles in their own
culture. A high SOC only represents the respect they
receive in their own society. Bwaps may be awarded
Imperial titles but they mean nothing to other Bwaps.

CAREERS
Bwaps may enter any career apart from Agent (except
for law enforcement) or Rogue. Most Bwaps become
bureaucrats, accountants or administrators, and can
enlist in the Citizen (corporate) career automatically
with no Qualification roll. When rolling for career
enlistment other than Citizen the following DMs apply
in addition to any others: DM-3 for Marines, DM-1 for
Army, DM+1 for Scouts and DM+2 for Merchants.

AGENT (LAW ENFORCEMENT)

While Bwap criminals are rare and are considered
to be mentally unwell, making law enforcers almost
unnecessary in Bwap dominated areas, the same
cannot be said of other sophonts. Bwaps make
excellent investigators, both in the field and the
laboratory. They are patient, dedicated, honest and,
most of all, perseverant. No matter the task at hand,
be it locating a single fingerprint in an entire parking
lot or interviewing every worker in an officer block, a
Bwap will go ahead with their task optimistically and
professionally, and they will get the job done.

ARMY, MARINE, MERCENARY AND NAVY

The majority of Bwaps in the military serve as a
defensive force on Bwap controlled planets or large
Bwap enclaves. Those that serve in other militaries,
especially in the massive bureaucracy that controls
each of the Imperium’s services, tend to have
administrative roles, operate as medical personnel
or military researchers. Those Bwaps that do serve
in active units often serve in the Imperial Navy and
more rarely the Imperial Army, Marines or mercenary
units. They are seen as unusual by other Bwaps and
as reliable, if not tediously by-the-book, servicemen by
their comrades in arms.

253

