T

SCOUT
Bwaps are no less curious than humans. They are far
more cautious, sometimes infuriatingly so, but also
focused and persistent. While the IISS bureaucracy
has a large number of Bwap administrators, there
are a surprising number of Bwaps in the field as well.
Scout teams consider themselves fortunate to have
a Bwap counted among their crew as they will add
a level of thoroughness occasionally missing from
all-human crews. While just as adventurous as their
human crewmates, Bwaps tend to lack the creativity
to make good field commanders.

MERCHANT
Bwap merchants have plied the stars for centuries
and are seen across Charted Space from the
Solomani Confederation and Hiver Federation to the
Spinward Marches and Zhodani Consulate. Bwaps
normally command ships crewed by their own race
as their personality precludes them from acting
as captain to other, less disciplined races. Those
found on mixed vessels often assume the position
of ship’s purser or broker, although sometimes as
administrative assistant or legal adviser. Those ships
that have a Bwap as a first officer ensure their ship
will effortlessly find its way through the myriad of
rules and regulations found on each world it visits.

Bwap Travellers

SCHOLAR

254

Bwap scientists are the next most common human
stereotype of a Bwap next to the Bwap bureaucrat
and for good reason. They contribute large numbers
of observers, researchers, lab assistants and
scientists to the Imperium, its member worlds and
corporations. Bwap scientists are known for their
thoroughness and the rigour with which they pursue
new theories and observations. Intuitive leaps are
rare but they are very good at compiling resource
material, cross-checking separate observations
and assembling them into promising areas of
investigation. Bwap scientists are common in medical
and biological studies but can be found in almost
every field.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

PSIONICS
Bwaps are not particularly prone to psionic
expression but it does occur rarely. If a Bwap needs
to determine its PSI, roll 2D-3 and subtract the
number of terms served by the Bwap in all careers
thus far. Psionics are suppressed in Bwap society as
it is throughout the Imperium. They have no psionic
institutes of their own but can train at Psi Institutes
alongside other races.

ROLEPLAYING A BWAP
Bwaps are compulsive organisers. Anything they do
is deliberate and painstakingly methodical. Ritual is
exceedingly important to them and attempts to hurry or
avoid established ritual will aggravate and annoy them.
There are certain activities that Bwaps will not
partake in. Bwaps will not lie, although they will
withhold the truth if protocol or necessity requires it.
Bwaps will not break the law except to restore what
they see as the established order of the universe.
Bwaps will not obey directives that, in their view,
cause disruption. Disorder and disarray make them
nervous and they will have a hard time not trying to
bring order and organisation to their surroundings.
Travellers who have had no experience with Bwaps
will find the encounter difficult and time consuming,
suffering DM-3 to all interpersonal exchanges and
taking additional time (moving one increment down
the Time Frames table on page 60 of the Traveller
Core Rulebook without reducing the difficulty of
any check). Travellers who wish to reduce the
aggravation of interacting with Bwaps (and the
negative modifier) may gain knowledge of their ways
through study in a library, being instructed by a
mentor or by association with Bwaps. Learning Bwap
rituals can be quite tedious, especially understanding
the nuances of advanced rituals. To learn the proper
greeting ritual may take several weeks, to be able to
deal with a Bwap official quickly will be a month or
two, or learn the procedure of contract negotiation
several months to a year.

R

