C

ENTRAL SUPPLY CATALOGUE: BWAPS

Bwaps are able to use the majority of items designed
for humans without penalty due to their similar
morphology. This includes computer keyboards, kitchen
implements, tools and thousands of other items. Those
that require a more ergonomic fit to a particular race,
such as drone waldoes, filter masks, pistol grips and
the like impose DM-1 unless they are specifically
designed for the Bwap anatomy. Likewise, another race
attempting to use an item designed specifically for a
Bwap will suffer the same DM-1. Bwap specific items
are more difficult to find but cost the same as humanspecific items. Protective equipment such as vacc
suits, combat armour, rebreathers, and so on, must be
specifically designed for an individual race and are not
interchangeable between species. Such equipment for
Bwaps costs 110% of the normal price.
Electronic equipment must be specially sealed against
moisture and high humidity when being handled by a
Bwap to avoid detrimental effects but this is a standard
feature of all electrical equipment at TL10+.

PERSONAL PROTECTION
Armour is not as common in Bwap society as on
human worlds. This is not to say that Bwaps do not
wear armour, only that they wear it when the situation
warrants it. Wearing armour openly is often seen as
boorish, the bearer obviously looking for trouble.
All suits of Bwap armour are decorated to resemble
their colouration and patterning, identifying at the very
least the crèche the wearer belongs to.

Armoured Kaftan: A heavy-duty kaftan-like garment
and head covering tailored from ballistic cloth,
suffused with small tubes to circulate water around
the skin of a Bwap to keep them moist. Like cloth
armour, the fabric absorbs impact energy and
disperses the blow over the body of the target. The
fabric is obviously armoured but at TL12 it becomes
light enough to require a Routine (6+) Investigate or
Recon check to recognise it as such.

Bwap Powered Plate: A large and bulky suit of
insulated powered armour made up of metallic plates
forming a complete body shell designed specifically
for Bwaps that is both tough and inflexible. As long
as the suit’s 80-hour power cell (Cr200 to replace)
has energy, the suit grants STR+2 but inflicts DEX2. Additionally, enhanced actuators along the spine
allow the Bwap to articulate their tail and use it
a striking weapon in combat, inflicting the same
damage as an unarmed strike. The TL14 version
has a 160-hour power supply, is made of ceramic
composites and adds STR+3 but only inflicts DEX-1.

Ceremonial Armour: Bwap ceremonial armour
(wepasab) is made from cured leather of ancient
design and consists of a tunic, leggings, grieves and
head covering. It is worn by Tap-a-wewaka-atapas
during formal occasions. The construction method for
wepasab has not changed and in almost all crèches
is created by hand. The cost below is for the simplest
form of armour with minimal decoration. More
flamboyant armour costs more, significantly more for
the most ostentatious.

MODIFICATIONS

All standard modifications listed on page 96 of the in
the Traveller Core Rulebook or page 27 of the Central
Supply Catalogue may be used with Bwap armour. In
addition, some are unique to the Bwaps as noted here.
Swimming Fins: These fins are webbing that
extend from the hands and feet, with a fin on the tail,
increasing a Bwaps swimming speed by +2m. At TL8
they are a permanent part of the armour and impart
DM-2 to all checks that require the use of hands
or fingers. From TL10 the fins can be retracted or
extended, removing the penalty.
Modification

TL

Kg

Cost

Swimming Fins

8

—

Cr100

Armoured Fins

10

—

Cr150

255

