HIGH GUARD OF THE BWAPS
Bwaps first developed their own fleet of ships during
the Ziru Sirka to facilitate trade and colonisation, and
continued during the fall of the Ramshackle Empire
and into the Long Night as a measure to protect
their worlds. At first they used ships provided by the
Vilani but as these began to reach the end of their
life, Bwaps began building their own vessels based
on their own design principles, making them highly
recognisable. Vowing never to forget the atrocities
and injustices visited upon them by the Solomani
and Vargr during the Long Night, Bwaps have
continued to maintain their own fleets, recognised by
the Third Imperium as colonial fleets. Bwap vessels
are found primarily in Bwap controlled systems
(especially military ships) in the Empty Quarter,
although merchant and trader vessels can be found
throughout the Third Imperium, particularly in core
and trailing sectors.
These ships are very much like human vessels and
use the same technology, as would be expected from
a race that gained spaceflight technology largely
from humans. Both races can readily use vessels of
the other with no difficulty.
Their vessels tend to have no external sharp edges,
favouring ovoids, spheres and other organic shapes.
They also tend to paint hulls in blues and greens.
Ships that belong to a particular crèche will often have
the hull painted in the same colours and patterns that
members of the crèche exhibit, identifying ownership
of the vessel clearly to other Bwaps.

Internally, Bwaps favour their vessels to emulate,
where practical, the function if not necessarily the
style of the ancient burrows that Bwaps originally
inhabited. This is far more likely to be found in larger
ships that have the space to accommodate Bwap
aesthetics. Convoluted, winding passageways will
lead to various rooms for both shared and private
use. While this is seen by many other races as
needlessly confusing and unnecessary, Bwaps find
comfort in familiar surroundings.

MUD BATHS
Given the Bwap predilection to socialising in a mud
bath, they have incorporated this ritual into life on
board space faring vessels.
A Bwap ship of 100 tons or more must have at
least one area dedicated to mud bathing. Small
ships tend to have a mud bath that can comfortably
accommodate four Bwaps but larger vessels have
mud baths that accommodate 40 or 50 Bwaps
at a time. A mud bath is treated as a stateroom
(consumes four tons and costs MCr0.5) and can
handle four Bwaps comfortably. It cannot be used
for accommodation and does not incur life support
costs. Multiple mud baths can be combined to create
a larger facility.

Bwaps favour a modular design for their ships, a
holdover from the original Vilani ships they first
obtained and copied. Each ship system is installed
as a module and, if damaged, is removed and
replaced as a module. This is not to say that Bwaps
will not repair their ships but the repaired module will
be removed and replaced with a new module at the
earliest convenience.
This has no effect on the ship construction system as
detailed in High Guard, nor does it affect the cost of
Bwap ships. It does mean that the cost required for
repairing a Bwap ship is inflated by +20% as entire
modules must be replaced.

267

