INTRODUCTION

Traveller is a science fiction roleplaying game of the far
future. A multitude of universes await players and you
will find Traveller is capable of handling almost any kind
of science fiction setting, from highly intricate cyberpunk
worlds to campaigns spanning entire galaxies where
mighty empires clash and suns explode.

If you have a favourite science fiction film or TV show,
Traveller will be able to replicate it for you, bringing your
best-loved futuristic moments to your tabletop.

CHARTED SPACE

While Traveller is intended to be used for any science
fiction setting its players devise, the longest running
commercially available universe (indeed, one of the
oldest roleplaying game settings of all) is Charted Space.

While Traveller can be used to model almost any
science fiction novel, movie or setting, the traditional
setting for adventures is the Third Imperium of
Humaniti, the third great empire to stretch across the
stars. In the Charted Space universe, players take on
the roles of tramp traders and mercenaries, wandering
the galaxy in search of profit and adventure.

Players and Travellers

Most participants in a Traveller game will be players.
Usually, each player generates a character using
the Traveller Creation rules; that character becomes
the player’s avatar in the game world and is called a
Traveller. These Travellers are the central protagonists
of the game and scenarios revolve around their
adventures and actions.

Humanity has gone to the stars and found them crowded
with other forms of life and other sentient species, and
science and technology have advanced vastly over the
present day – but the essential nature of humanity is
unchanged. Life continues as it does now, only spread
out over the sea of stars. A mighty Imperium unites
thousands of worlds under a single rule but it is beset by
enemies both internal and external.

Throughout this rulebook, the terms player and Traveller
are synonymous. The term character is used to describe
those in the game controlled by the referee rather
than the players – what are often called non-player
characters. However, rules that apply to Travellers are
usually applicable to characters and vice versa.

The Imperium commands the space between the stars,
ensuring that civilisation endures and trade continues.
Megacorporations and feudal lords conduct the bulk of
this trade but there will always be a place for the free
trader – hardy Travellers and adventurers on the fringes of
Charted Space, dealing in strange goods and smuggled
cargoes, doing whatever they can to make a Credit.

One of the participants is the referee, who describes
the world around the Travellers, presents them with
challenges and dangers, and takes on the role of the
supporting cast and antagonists. The referee creates
the basic outline of the adventures that the Travellers
encounter and resolves the results of their actions
using the rules in this book as a guideline.

THE REFEREE

Xavier : W233.9mm, H179.9mm


3

