T

TRAVELLER RULE ZERO

Many roleplaying games have a ‘rule zero’, which
marks out a referee’s fiat, the notion that the
referee is free to ignore or change any rule to fit
in with their campaign. This is true of Traveller as
well but it is worth making a special note about
this game.
Traveller comprises several ‘mini-games’ such as
world creation, trade and character creation that
allows much of the game to run on ‘autopilot’. In
many circumstances, the referee is able to make a
few rolls on a few tables and generate characters,
battles, even a sizeable part of the known
universe – this is great news for the busy referee
who can then concentrate on the adventure.
However, while these tools are in place, the
referee should never feel bound by them and has
the latitude to ignore any generated results in
preference to their own creations.
Traveller Rule Zero is this: The rules in this
book, indeed in every Traveller book, provide
merely a framework. If any rules conflict with a
referee’s vision for their universe, even if that
universe is the official Charted Space setting, then
they must give way and be altered to fit.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A campaign is a series of adventures, charting the
continuing escapades of a group of Travellers, and is
the most common form of Traveller – mainly because
it is the most fun and rewarding! A campaign can be
continuous or episodic. In a continuous campaign, each
adventure follows on almost immediately from the end
of the last and the fuel, resources and money available
to the Travellers is carefully tracked. In an episodic
campaign, there are longer gaps between adventures
and the game focuses only on the exciting and conflictfilled parts of the Travellers’ lives.

CAMPAIGN IDEAS

These are a few common types of campaign that are
often used in Traveller.

The Trader Campaign: The Travellers form the

crew of a free trader merchant vessel, taking whatever
cargoes they can get to keep their spacecraft flying and
in one piece. Inspiration for games like this could come
from the TV series Firefly or video games such as Elite
and Privateer.

The Military Campaign: The Travellers are all

members of a military unit, usually veterans of similar
careers, participating in wars, skirmishes and other
military activities. Inspiration could come from the
Honor Harrington novels, the film Aliens or Starship
Troopers – the book, animated series or film.

The Explorer Campaign: In a campaign of this

Introduction

ADVENTURES AND CAMPAIGNS

In an adventure, the Travellers embark on a journey
or scenario overseen by the referee. The referee
determines what dangers the Travellers will face,
from hostile aliens and criminals to solar flares and
automated defence systems or even political intrigue
and deception. The Travellers decide how they will
react and overcome these obstacles. For example,
the Travellers may be hired to bring a cargo from one
world to another but a rival merchant is trying to stop
them and has hired a band of mercenaries to attack the
Travellers’ ship en route. The Travellers have to get the
cargo through safely.
An adventure can be a one-off game, using
Travellers created by the referee specifically for that
game and discarded afterwards or it can be part of
a campaign. An adventure takes one or more game
sessions to complete.

4


type the Travellers go beyond the borders of Charted
Space, looking for objects, planets and civilisations of
value or curiosity. The Travellers will have to be highly
self-sufficient to survive on their own for long stretches.
For inspiration look no further than the original series of
Star Trek.

The Traveller Campaign: The traditional Traveller
campaign features a little of everything. The Travellers will
go from exploring abandoned alien ziggurats to rescuing
missing pets to taking on the local crime lord in a protracted
gang war. Inspiration could come from anywhere.
Specialised types of campaign are detailed in two
expansions – Mercenary and Element Class Cruisers.
Mercenary shows Travellers how to recruit, run and fight
with a dedicated military unit, allowing them to make their
fortune with a platoon or company of soldiers. Meanwhile,
Element Class Cruisers includes the Naval Campaign
Sourcebook, which provides everything needed to run a
‘bridge crew’ style of campaign, where the Travellers will
be the senior officers of a mighty capital ship!

R

