TL8 (Pre-Stellar)

At TL8, it is possible to reach other worlds in the same
star system, although terraforming or full colonisation
are not within the culture’s capacity. Permanent space
habitats become possible. Fusion power becomes
commercially viable.

TL9 (Pre-Stellar)

The defining element of TL9 is the development of
gravity manipulation, which makes space travel vastly
safer and faster. This research leads to development of
the jump drive, which occurs near the end of this Tech
Level. TL9 cultures can colonise other worlds, although
travelling to a colony is often a one-way trip.

TL10 (Early Stellar)

With the advent of commonly available jump drives,
nearby systems are opened up. Orbital habitats and
factories become common. Interstellar travel and trade
lead to an economic boom. Colonies become much
more viable.

TL11 (Early Stellar)

The first true artificial intelligences become possible, as
computers are able to model synaptic networks. Gravsupported structures reach to the heavens. Jump-2
travel becomes possible, allowing easier travel beyond
the one jump stellar mains.

TL12 (Average Stellar)

Planetwide weather control revolutionises terraforming
and agriculture. Portable plasma weapons and carriermounted fusion guns make the battlefield untenable for
unarmoured combatants. Jump-3 travel is developed.

TL13 (Average Stellar)

Battle dress appears on the battlefield in response
to new weapons, heralding the pinnacle of personal
armour and making infantry the equivalent of less
advanced armoured vehicles. Cloning of body parts
becomes easy. Jump-4 travel appears.

TL14 (Average Stellar)

Fusion weapons become portable. Flying cities appear.
Jump-5 drives are built.

TL15 (High Stellar)

Black globe generators suggest a new direction for
defensive technologies, while the development of
synthetic anagathics means that human lifespan is now
vastly increased.
Higher Tech Levels exist (indeed, there is no theoretical
upper limit) and may appear in other universes or be
discovered by pioneering scientists within Charted Space.

Introduction

7

