CAREERS

Next, your Traveller engages in one or more career
terms, representing their experiences and adventures
before the start of the campaign. Each career term
lasts for four years, even if a Traveller fails a Survival
roll or is forced to leave a career.
At many points during a career, a Traveller will have to
make a dice roll of some sort. Many of these rolls are
based on characteristics – simply roll 2D, add the DM
from the listed characteristic and try to get a total higher
than or equal to the listed value.
So, a roll of INT 8+ means ‘roll 2D, add your Intellect
DM and you succeed if you roll an 8 or more’.

A few rolls are skill checks, where you add any levels in
that skill. For example, a roll of Gun Combat 8+ would
mean ‘roll 2D, add your Gun Combat skill level and get
8 or more to succeed’.
Note that later in the rules, you are able to add further
modifiers to checks like this (for example, when using
the Gun Combat skill to shoot, you can often add your
DEX DM). However, these other modifiers are never
applied during Traveller creation.
In each career, there are three assignments,
representing different aspects of the career. Pick one of
these assignments when you enter the career.

SOCIAL STANDING AND NOBILITY

Travellers with a high SOC are the cream of their civilisations and
may be very well known on their world and possibly across vast
swathes of Charted Space. However, while the Third Imperium
maintains a system of nobility recognised across most of its
worlds, not everyone with a high SOC necessarily has a noble
title – or is even a noble at all. Nobles of very high rank have
many duties and obligations that may preclude them from a life of
adventure. After all, a typical duke will reign over many worlds and
Travellers will generally want to explore the universe rather than
be engaged in constant administration.

Noble Titles

Social Standing
11
12
13
14
15

Possible Titles
Knight
Baron
Marquis
Count
Duke

If the group includes a Traveller with a high SOC, we recommend one of the following courses:
•

•

If a title is desired, the Noble Titles table provides a suitable link between specific noble titles and SOC.

traveller creation

•

Sons, daughters and more distant relations to a named noble may carry a great deal of social weight
without actually having a title themselves (although they may well inherit later, depending on how far
down the line of succession they are).
The Traveller may well be a high-ranking noble – but has been deposed or otherwise ousted from their
position. Perhaps they will someday regain their seat or maybe they will spend the rest of their life trying
to escape those who removed them.
SOC need not be tied to nobility – celebrities will also command a high score in this characteristic.
A Traveller’s career might point the way to why a SOC is so high, perhaps as a war hero or famous
writer. However, it is also possible that the Traveller is simply known for being known, much like some
celebrities in our own world.

11

