

Increase EDU by +1

PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

Before a Traveller embarks on a lifelong career, there are
educational options that may be worth considering. These
are going to university or attending a military academy.
This usually takes place in a Traveller’s first term (in
place of a career), although it can be delayed up until
the third term if a term or two in a career is desired.
From term four onwards, pre-career education is no
longer available.
A Traveller can select university or military academy,
making a roll for successful entry. If this is failed, the
Traveller must immediately attempt entry into a career
and, failing that, be drafted as normal. Further attempts
can be made in terms two and three if desired but only
one attempt can be made for entry to one of these precareer options in any one term.
Once successful entry has been achieved, the Traveller
will gain any skills noted and roll on the Pre-career
Events table. Upon successful graduation, one or more
benefits will be awarded. Unlike a career, there is no
mustering out or gaining of anything else other than the
benefits listed. If graduation is not achieved, then no
benefits are gained although the Traveller will still have
earned some skills during this time.
After successful graduation, a Traveller may attempt to
enter a career of their choice as normal, although they
may have earned bonuses or automatic entry to certain
careers, as listed under graduation benefits.

traveller creation

UNIVERSITY

16

Many worlds have one or more universities within their
major settlements but even citizens of the most remote
system can engage in university education through the use
of computer networks and interstellar communications. A
university education will channel a Traveller’s efforts into
a narrow range of skills but there are few other ways to
become more skilful within them so quickly.
Entry: EDU 6+
DM-1 if in Term Two, DM-2 if in Term Three
DM+1 if SOC 9 or higher
Skills: Choose a level 0 and a level 1 skill from the
following list:
Admin, Advocate, Animals (training or veterinary), Art
(any), Astrogation, Electronics (any), Engineer (any),
Language (any), Medic, Navigation, Profession (any),
Science (any).

Graduation: INT 6+. If 10+ is rolled, graduate with
honours.
Graduation Benefits
• Increase both of the skills chosen before by one level.
• Increase EDU by an additional +1.
• Graduation grants DM+1 (DM+2 if graduation was
with honours) to qualify for the following careers;
Agent, Army, Citizen (corporate), Entertainer
(journalist), Marines, Navy, Scholar, Scouts.
• Graduation allows a commission roll to be taken
before the first term of a military career, so long as
it is the first career chosen after university. Success
will mean the Traveller enters the career at officer
rank 1. If graduation was with honours, DM+2 is
granted on this first commission roll.

MILITARY ACADEMY

For those looking to dedicate their lives to military
service, there is no better option than joining an
academy to round out an education. This is a popular
choice for those coming from ‘military’ families or those
having grown up never considering anything other than
a life in uniform. A term within a military academy can set
a recruit’s career for great things, so competition to gain
one of the limited number of open student slots is fierce.
Before joining a military academy, you must decide
whether it is an academy of the Army, Marines or Navy.
Entry: Army END 7+, Marines END 8+, Navy INT 8+
DM-2 if in Term Two, DM-4 if in Term Three.
Skills: Gain all Service Skills of the military career the
academy is tied to at level 0, as with basic training.
Graduation:
INT 7+. If 11+ is rolled, graduate with honours.
DM+1 if END 8 or higher, DM+1 if SOC 8 or higher.
Graduation Benefits
• If entering the same military career the academy
is tied to, select any three Service Skills and
increase them to level 1.
• Increase EDU by +1.
• If the Traveller graduated with honours, increase
SOC by +1 as well.
• Graduation allows automatic entry into the military
career the academy is tied to, so long as it is the first
career attempted by the Traveller after graduation.

