•

Graduation allows a commission roll to be taken
before the first term of a military career, so long as it
is the first career chosen after university, with DM+2.
Success will mean the Traveller enters the career
at officer rank 1. If graduation was with honours, the
Traveller will automatically pass this roll.

If a Traveller attends a military academy but fails to
graduate, they may still automatically enter the military
career that the academy is tied to, so long as they did
not roll 2 or less on the graduation roll. If they choose to
enter this career, they may not make a commission roll
in the first term.

EVENTS DURING PRE-CAREER EDUCATION

For any term a Traveller spends in pre-career
education, roll on the Pre-career Events table. As with
career events, other Travellers may be linked to with
the connections rule – perhaps they even spent time in
the same university or academy!
If drafted through an event, enter the new career next
term but do not graduate. This (and similar effects) can
cause a Traveller to be drafted more than once.

Pre-Career Events
2D
2
3
4

7
8
9
10
11

12


traveller creation

5
6

Event
You are approached by an underground (and highly illegal) psionic group who sense potential in you. You
may test your PSI and attempt to enter the Psion career in any subsequent term, (see page 236).
Your time in education is not a happy one and you suffer a deep tragedy; perhaps you become hopelessly
addicted to drink or drugs, a failed romance leaves you in tatters or a fatal accident involving a close friend
shakes your confidence. You crash and fail to graduate.
A supposedly harmless prank goes wrong and someone gets hurt, physically or emotionally. Roll SOC 8+.
If you succeed, gain a Rival. If you fail, gain an Enemy. If you roll 2, you fail to graduate and must take the
Prisoner career in your next term.
Taking advantage of youth, you party as much as you study. Gain Carouse 1.
You become involved in a tightly knit clique or group and make a pact to remain friends forever, wherever
in the galaxy you may end. Gain D3 Allies.
Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table (see page 46).
You join a political movement. Roll SOC 8+. If successful, you become a leading figure. Gain one Ally
within the movement but gain one Enemy in wider society.
You develop a healthy interest in a hobby or other area of study. Gain any skill of your choice, with the
exception of Jack-of-all-Trades, at level 0.
A newly arrived tutor rubs you up the wrong way and you work hard to overturn their conclusions. Roll 9+
on any skill you have learned during this term. If successful, you provide a truly elegant proof that soon
becomes accepted as the standard approach. Gain a level in the skill you rolled on and the tutor as a Rival.
War comes and a wide-ranging draft is instigated. You can either flee and join the Drifter career next term
or be drafted (roll 1D: 1–3 Army, 4–5 Marine, 6 Navy). Either way, you do not graduate this term. However,
if you roll SOC 9+, you can get enough strings pulled to avoid the draft and complete your education – you
may attempt graduation normally and are not drafted.
You gain wide-ranging recognition of your initiative and innovative approach to study. Increase your SOC by +1.

17

