
CAREER DESCRIPTIONS

Each career in this chapter has the following sections.

QUALIFICATION

This is what you need to roll to enter that career.
If you fail this check, you cannot enter your chosen
career this term. You must either submit to the draft
or take the Drifter career for this term. If you leave a
career, you cannot return to it in the next term.
The draft and the Drifter career are exceptions to
this rule – you can be drafted into a career you were
previously in but got ejected from and the Drifter career
is always open. Also see Changing Assignments on
page 20 for another exception.

SKILLS AND TRAINING

Each career has four or five types of skill table
associated with it – Personal Development, Service
Skills, Assignment Skills (divided into three sub-tables
corresponding to assignments), Officer and Advanced
Education. In each term you spend in a career, pick one of
these tables and roll 1D to see which skill you increase.
You may only roll on the Advanced Education or
Commissioned tables if you have the listed requirement
(usually EDU 8 or higher, or a certain rank).

traveller creation

Skills can be listed with or without an associated level.
If no specific level is listed, then you gain that skill at
level 1 if you do not have it already, or increase its level
by +1 if you are already trained in that field. If a level is
listed, then you gain the skill at that level so long as it is
higher than your current level in the skill.

18

For example, Gambler 0 would mean you receive the
Gambler skill at level 0. This is of benefit to you only if
you have no Gambler skill.
Vacc Suit would mean you increase your Vacc Suit skill
by +1 or gain it at level 1 if you have no Vacc Suit skill
to begin with. If you have Vacc Suit 0, it increases to 1,
if you have Vacc Suit 2 it rises to 3 and so forth.
Streetwise 1 would mean you get the Streetwise skill at
level 1. If your Streetwise skill is already 1 or more, then
this is of no benefit to you. If you have no Streetwise
skill, or it is only at 0, you jump straight to Streetwise 1.

SKILL LIMITS

A skill may never be increased beyond level 4 during
Traveller creation. Once a skill has reached level 4, any
additional increases are lost. In addition, a Traveller
may never have a total number of skill levels higher
than three times their combined INT and EDU.

BASIC TRAINING

For your first career only, instead of rolling for a skill,
you get all the skills listed on the Service Skills table at
level 0 as your basic training. For subsequent careers,
you may pick any one skill listed in the Service Skills
table at level 0 as your basic training.
Citizens and Drifters are an exception to this. They both
use their appropriate Assignment Skills for basic training.

SURVIVAL

Each career has a survival roll. If you fail this roll,
you must immediately roll on the Mishap table for the
career. This mishap will force you to leave the career
immediately unless otherwise stated. You will also lose
the Benefit roll for the current term. A natural 2 on the
survival roll is always a failure.

EVENTS

If you are still in your career after resolving the survival
roll, roll on the career’s Events table to see what
interesting things befall you this term.

ADVANCEMENT

Each career has an advancement roll to represent your
successful (or otherwise) path through the career. You
start each career at rank 0.
If you make a successful advancement roll, move to
the next higher rank and gain an extra roll on any of the
skill tables available for your career. You also get any
bonuses listed for your new rank. You may only attempt
to advance once per term.
If your advancement roll is equal to or less than the
number of terms you have spent in this career, then
you cannot continue in this career after this term. Either
your services are no longer required, or events have
caused you to leave, or perhaps you are simply bored
and want a new challenge.
If you roll a natural 12, then you must continue in this
career. You are too valuable to lose and will be strongarmed into staying.

