COMMISSION

This only applies to the military careers of Army,
Navy and Marines. A Traveller who succeeds at a
commission roll becomes a rank 1 officer in that career
and progresses on the officer’s rank table from then on.
Trying for a commission is optional.
You may only attempt to gain a commission in your first
term unless your SOC is 9 or higher, in which case you
may try for a commission in any term. However, there
is DM-1 applied to commission rolls for every term after
the first.
Some events give a bonus DM to advancement rolls or
grant automatic advancement. You can apply these DMs
to commission rolls also.
If you gain a commission, you may not roll for
advancement in the same term. Travellers can still roll for
advancement if they fail a commission roll.

THE CONNECTIONS RULE

During Traveller creation, the aim is to not only to
create interesting histories for Travellers through
career decisions, events and mishaps but also to
ensure Travellers know one another before the
campaign begins. This avoids every campaign
starting with the words ‘right, you all meet in the
starport bar…’. In Traveller, you will all know one
another to some degree and can get stuck into
adventuring straight away.
If two Travellers agree, then any event rolled
for one Traveller can involve another. Only one
Traveller needs to have rolled the specific event,
though you will find it more exciting if Travellers
can link events together (this is why it is best
to create Travellers as a group activity, going
through terms one-by-one together).
If an event can be linked between two Travellers
in this way, then they both get one extra skill of
their choice. You may gain a maximum of two
free skills from the connections rule and each
connection must be with a different Traveller.
For each connection you make, you may gain
any skill but cannot bring a skill above level 3
using this rule nor may you take the Jack-of-allTrades skill.

Some ranks have bonuses associated with them, such
as extra skills. These are acquired immediately upon
attaining the rank.

For example, Erik is working as an Agent and he
rolls an undercover mission (event number 8 on
the Agent Events table). Erik’s player suggests
that Erik could have met Kathya while on this
mission and Kathya’s player agrees. They then
discuss exactly what happened during the
mission and this begins to form previous history
for both Travellers. Both Erik and Kathya will then
gain an extra skill because of this.

You begin at rank 0 in a new career. Each time you
succeed with an advancement roll, you move up to
the next rank. Ranks are most important for military
careers, such as the Army or Navy, but every career
has its own internal hierarchies and levels of authority
and responsibility. However, not all ranks have a title
like the military.

BENEFITS

When you leave a career for any reason, you gain
material benefits from that career, representing
money, equipment and influence acquired during your
years of work.
Benefits are described fully on page 46.

DRIFTERS AND THE DRAFT

You may attempt to enlist in one career each term if
you are not continuing with an existing career. If you fail
to qualify for a new career, you have two options. You
can either apply to the draft, and be randomly sent to
one of the military services, or you may spend that term
travelling as a Drifter, without true career or purpose. A
Traveller may only enter the draft once in their lifetime
unless otherwise stated.


Draft Table
1D
1
2
3
4
5
6

Career (assignment)
Navy (any)
Army (any)
Marine (any)
Merchant (merchant marine)
Scout (any)
Agent (law enforcement)

traveller creation

RANKS AND BONUSES

19

