

CHANGING CAREERS

A Traveller may get forced out of a career due to a
mishap or event, or may simply leave voluntarily to
pursue a more exciting or more lucrative life elsewhere.
To enter a new career, a Traveller need only make the
appropriate qualification roll at the start of a new term. If
they fail, they must either submit to the draft (if they have
not already done so earlier in life) or become a Drifter.

CHANGING ASSIGNMENTS

Instead of a whole new career, a Traveller may instead
be interested in focussing on another aspect of their
existing career by changing their assignment.
For assignments in the Army, Marine, Navy, Nobility,
Rogue, Scholar or Scout career, this simply requires
a qualification roll. If this is unsuccessful, the Traveller
continues in the career with the same assignment they
had before without penalty. If the qualification roll is
made, the Traveller now adopts the new assignment
and continues in the career, retaining their rank.
New assignments in the Agent, Citizen, Entertainer and
Merchant careers are considered to be new careers.
Upon voluntarily leaving the career (a change in
assignment cannot be done if you have been ejected
from the career – no one will hire you!), Benefit rolls are
made as normal and a qualification roll is necessary to
enter the assignment. If this is failed, the Traveller must
enter the draft or become a Drifter.

traveller creation

If the attempt to change assignment is successful, the
career begins afresh with the new assignment, with the
Traveller starting at rank 0.

20

CONTACTS, ALLIES, RIVALS AND ENEMIES

Over the course of their careers, Travellers will
have made friends and foes, and established
ties with various people who may play a part in
future adventures. There are four categories of
such associates.
Contacts: These are individuals the Traveller
knows and has had friendly dealings with in the
past. They have useful skills or positions and
may be willing to aid the Traveller.
Allies: These are like Contacts but are willing to
help the Traveller and actively go out of their way
to provide aid.
Rivals: These are people who hate or oppose
the Traveller and will attempt to interfere or
harass them.
Enemies: These are even worse than Rivals –
a Rival will normally work within the law but an
Enemy wants the Traveller dead, imprisoned or
otherwise doomed.
When you gain an associate from a random
event, note it on your character sheet. You
can give as much detail as you wish, from the
sketchy (‘Rival in Navy’) to the detailed (‘Captain
Harrick, the Pride of Sylea, is my Rival, because
I disobeyed his orders while on a mission. He
had me drummed out of the Navy, damn him! I’ll
yet have my revenge!’.)
Other Travellers can be Contacts, Allies or
even Rivals and doing this qualifies for taking
advantage of the connections rule.

