OTHER BENEFITS

When you leave a career in good standing with your
previous employers, you are permitted to keep various
pieces of equipment or even shares of a vessel.
Different careers grant different Benefits.
Armour: Select any type of armour with a limit of
Cr10000 and TL12. If you roll this Benefit again, then
you can either select another type of armour with the
same limits or trade your original in for armour with a
limit of Cr25000.
Ally: Gain an Ally.
Blade: Select any blade weapon with a limit of Cr1000
and TL12. If you roll this Benefit again, you may take
another blade or one level in the Melee (blade) skill.
Characteristic Increases: Increase the listed
characteristic by the amount shown, up to your racial
maximum. Human characters are limited to a score of
15. Characteristic increases above 15 are lost, with the
exception of SOC increases – every point of excess
SOC becomes a Ship Share.
Cybernetic Implant: Gain any augmentations (see
page 106) with a limit of Cr75000 and TL12. If you roll
this Benefit again, then you may either take a different
augmentation or increase the one you already possess by
one level of Improvement as shown on the table on page
106 (this may take it above the Credit and TL limit).
Contact: Gain a Contact.

Gun: Select any common or military ranged weapon
with a limit of Cr3000 and TL12. If you roll this benefit
again, you may take another weapon or one level in
the appropriate Gun Combat skill for a weapon already
received as a Benefit.
Lab Ship: You receive a lab ship with 25% of the
mortgage paid off on it. This lab ship is identical to the
one on page 206 but you must roll 1D times on the


Personal Vehicle: You receive a personal vehicle,
such as a ground car or air/raft. You can choose exactly
what type of vehicle this is but it may not be armed and
has a limit of Cr300000 and TL10. If you roll this Benefit
again, gain a level of Drive or Flyer.
Scientific Equipment: Gain any one piece of scientific
equipment with a limit of Cr2000 and TL12. If you
roll this Benefit again, take another piece of scientific
equipment or gain one level in Electronics or Science.
Scout Ship: You receive a scout ship. You have full
use of the ship and can modify it as you see fit but it
still belongs to the Scout Service and can (and will!) be
recalled back into service as needed. This means you
will be expected to complete missions for the Scout
Service from time-to-time. If you roll this Benefit more
than once, re-roll the result.
Ship’s Boat: You receive a ship’s boat or other small
craft with a limit of MCr10 and TL12. If you roll this
Benefit again, gain Pilot (small craft). Alternatively,
receive a Ship Share instead.
Ship Shares: You obtain one or more Ship Shares
that can be put towards obtaining a ship. Each share is
worth MCr1 but cannot be redeemed for cash.
Weapon: Select any weapon with a limit of Cr3000 and
TL12. If you roll this benefit again, you may take another
weapon or one level in the appropriate Melee or Gun
Combat skill for a weapon already received as a Benefit.
TAS Membership: You are a member of the Traveller’s
Aid Society (TAS), a private organisation that maintains
hostels and facilities at all Class A and B starports in
many parts of human space. Facilities are available
(at reasonable cost) to members and their guests.
Receipt of membership in the Traveller’s Aid Society
as a benefit may be construed as a reward for heroism
or extraordinary service to the Society rather than an
official benefit from a career. Membership is for life and
not transferable.
Membership may also be purchased for MCr1, although
it is possible for an application to be ‘black-balled’ by
an existing member. The Traveller’s Aid Society is an
exclusive organisation, made up of those who are truly
citizens of the galaxy, not just a single world.

traveller creation

Free Trader: You receive a free trader with 25%
of the mortgage paid off on it. This free trader is
identical to the one on page 194 but you must roll 1D
times on the Spacecraft Quirks table on page 188. If
you roll this Benefit again, an additional 25% of the
mortgage has been paid off – if you roll this Benefit
four times, the free trader will have no mortgage and
it will be all yours! Alternatively, you may select a far
trader (page 196) instead.

Spacecraft Quirks table on page 188. If you roll this
Benefit again, an additional 25% of the mortgage has
been paid off – if you roll this Benefit four times, the lab
ship will have no mortgage and it will be all yours!

47

