T

The TAS invests its membership fees and other
incomes; it uses its capital and return to provide benefits
to its members. Every two months, it pays dividends in
the form of one high passage (see page 158) to each
member. This passage may be used, retained or sold.
Membership may only be received once per Traveller.
If you roll this Benefit again, receive two Ship
Shares instead.
Yacht: You receive a yacht with 25% of the mortgage
paid off on it. This yacht is identical to the one on page
202 but you must roll 1D times on the Spacecraft Quirks
table on page 188. If you roll this Benefit again, an
additional 25% of the mortgage has been paid off – if
you roll this benefit four times, the yacht will have no
mortgage and it will be all yours! Alternatively, you may
select a Safari Ship instead (see page 198).

SHIP SHARES

Ship Shares represent contacts, credit rating, savings
and favours owed that a Traveller can put towards
ownership of a space vessel, worth roughly one million
Credits. Travellers can pool their Ship Shares towards
the use of a vessel but cannot trade Ship Shares for
cash. It is very unlikely that the Travellers will be able
to own anything but the smallest starship outright at
the start of the game, so most crews end up working to
support a mortgage on their spacecraft. The more Ship
Shares that a group of Travellers can put together, the
bigger a ship they can afford.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SHIPS WITH BENEFITS

There are several ways of starting a Traveller
with a ship after completing careers, although it
is difficult. However, for simplicity and balance,
only one Traveller may start with a ship in their
possession before the campaign begins. If two or
more Travellers have gained ships, you should
debate who actually gets a ship. The other
Travellers will receive an additional pension of
Cr25000 every year for each time they rolled a
ship as a benefit. This represents part ownership
in a commercial vessel and the dividends
received on the investment.
While individual Ship Shares cannot be
redeemed for cash either, if they are not used to
help purchase a ship the Traveller will instead
receive an additional pension of Cr1000 every
year (they might not be in possession of the
ship but it is somewhere out there in the galaxy,
earning dividends for those who invested in it,
possibly many years ago).

traveller creation

See the Spacecraft Operations chapter for more on
ship mortgages and how Ship Shares can be applied
against them.

48

Pensions

A Traveller that leaves a career (other than Scout,
Rogue, Prisoner or Drifter) after at least five terms is
considered to have retired and receives a pension. This
pension is paid at the beginning of each year, effective
upon leaving the service and may be collected at any
Class A or B starport.

Terms

Pay

5

Cr10000

6

Cr12000

7

Cr14000

8

Cr16000

9+

Cr2000 per term beyond 8


AGEING

The effects of ageing begin when a Traveller reaches
34 years of age (at the end of their fourth career term).
At the end of the fourth term and at the end of every
term thereafter, the Traveller must roll 2D on the Ageing
table. Use the Traveller’s total number of terms as
a negative DM on this table; the older you are, the
heavier the effects of ageing will weigh upon you.
The Traveller may choose which characteristics are
affected by ageing.

R

