
MEDICAL DEBT

After you have finished creating your Traveller, but
before the campaign begins, you must pay any
outstanding costs from medical care or anagathic drugs
out of your Benefits. Any debt left is hanging over you
at the start of the game and you can be sure it will be
collected, likely with interest.

WHY ARE YOU TRAVELLING?

The final step of creation is to choose your Traveller’s
initial goal – why are they travelling? The lure of the
unknown? The chance to strike it rich? Running from
their past? Loyalty to another Traveller?
At this stage of creation, you have guided your Traveller
from their teenage years to the present day. Who are
they? How has their past shaped their beliefs? What
cause are they willing to fight for? Do they have any
odd tics or habits? What do they want?

ALIENS

Up to now, we have only considered human Travellers.
However, many Traveller universes also contain
numerous non-human sophonts – aliens.
Other universes will detail the aliens that can be
Travellers and the Aliens of Charted Space books add
more but, to get you started, here are two commonly
found in the Third Imperium; the Aslan and Vargr.

CREATING ALIEN TRAVELLERS

Alien Travellers are created in the same way as
humans but with the following two differences.
Aliens have modifiers applied to some of their
characteristics as soon as they are rolled. This may
take them above the normal maximum of 15 but cannot
take a characteristic to less than 1.
Aliens have traits, or special rules, that mark them
as different.
Both of these are detailed for each alien species in
their descriptions.

PRISONER CAREERS

The Prisoner is a special career that Travellers
cannot enter voluntarily. Instead, they may be
forced to spend time in this career through various
events in other careers. A Traveller is free to pick a
new assignment in the career every term.

traveller creation

LEAVING THE PRISONER CAREER

A Traveller may not normally leave or be ejected
from this career – not even Mishaps will force
them to leave. Instead, they have a value called a
Parole Threshold. At the end of each term in the
prisoner career, if the Traveller’s advancement
roll is greater than their Parole Threshold, it
means their prison sentence has come to an end
and they leave this career. Otherwise, they may
not leave this career and must continue in it for
another term.

You can find out more on playing aliens in the Aliens of
Charted Space books but presented here are everything
you need to create Aslan and Vargr Travellers in the
Third Imperium. It should be noted that while aliens
have their own cultures and societies that can powerfully
affect their career choices (some aliens even have their
own unique careers), those created with this book are
assumed to have grown up within the Third Imperium
itself, among humans and adopting human ways, and so
they use the same careers detailed in this chapter.

A Traveller’s Parole Threshold starts at 1D+2.
A Traveller’s Parole Threshold can never go
above 12.

ANAGATHICS

Travellers may not use Anagathics in prison.

Aslan Dewclaw

52

