POST CAREER EDUCATION

Once a Traveller leaves their career and begins to
wander the stars, they will have every opportunity for
adventure and excitement. All these possibilities may
leave the Traveller thinking they are not adequately
prepared for this life and the idea of continuing their
education may come to mind.
Education in the far future is accessible to everyone
and ranges from finding teachers in remote star
systems who grant secret knowledge, to a plethora of
distance learning courses that Travellers can diligently
follow to increase their skills and abilities.
This is all handled by training, which gives a Traveller the
opportunity to increase existing skills and learn new ones.

TRAINING

In order to train for a new skill, or improve an existing
one, a Traveller must commit to a Study Period. A
Study Period is equal to eight weeks (or two months) of
study and practice. These weeks within a Study Period
need not be consecutive but each week must be fully
dedicated to study with at least eight hours per day
spent learning and practicing.
If this cannot be achieved, if the Traveller is interrupted
on the third day of a week and must perform a task for
a patron, for example, then any training performed that
week is wasted. Make a note for every week of training
that is completed – an area for this has been set aside
on the Traveller character sheet.

Many Travellers take the opportunity of week-long jump
travel to study, learning new skills during what might
otherwise be a dull journey.
It is important to note that failing a Study Period does
not necessarily mean the Traveller has not understood
the study materials, just that they failed to get anything
useful out of them. A Traveller failing their EDU check
while studying Science (physics) during jump travel, for
example, might find the captain of the ship is constantly
ordering them to clean the cargo deck, they might be
distracted by a hobby or new vid show, or they might
just be spending their time sitting in their bunk eating
Sugary Puff sandwiches while reading What Space
Bike? Magazine when they really should be studying…

LIMITATIONS

Remember, your Traveller may have a maximum
number of skill levels equal to three times their
combined INT and EDU score. If they already have this
many skills after leaving a career, any additional skills
may only be learned to level 0.

EXCEPTIONS

There are a number of exceptions that must be kept in
mind when learning new skills.
•
•

The Jack-of-all-Trades skill may never be learned
or improved.
The Athletics skill may be learned or improved but
does not use EDU. Instead, use the appropriate
physical characteristics (STR, DEX or END). Any
physical characteristic can be used to gain Athletics 0.

Once eight weeks of training and learning have been
accumulated, over any length of total time, a Study
Period has been completed.

Success indicates the Traveller has learned something
and if they were attempting to learn a brand new skill at
level 0, they can now add that to their character sheet.
Failure indicates the Traveller has learned nothing new
or useful but may try again after another successful
Study Period.
To improve skills to the next higher level, the Traveller
must accumulate a number of successful Study Periods
equal to the level of skill they are trying to reach. For
example, if a Traveller had Electronics (computers) 1
and was trying to learn Electronics (computers) 2, this
would require two successful Study Periods.


traveller creation

At this point, the Traveller must succeed at an Average
(8+) EDU check.

55

