Mishaps

1D
1
2
3

Events

4
5
6

2D
2
3
4
5

6
7

8
9

11
12

EVENT
Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table. However, you are not ejected from this career.
You have the opportunity to escape the prison. If you take this opportunity, roll either Stealth 10+ or
Deception 10+. Succeed and you leave this career. Fail and raise your Parole Threshold by +2.
You are assigned to difficult or backbreaking labour. Roll END 8+. If you fail, increase your Parole
Threshold by +1. Succeed and you may reduce your Parole Threshold by 1 and gain any one of the
following skills: Athletics (any) 1, Mechanic 1, or Melee (unarmed) 1.
You have the opportunity to join a gang. Roll Persuade or Melee 8+ to do so. If you fail, you gain an
Enemy. Succeed and you must raise your Parole Threshold by +1 but gain DM+1 to all survival rolls
in this career and any one of the following skills: Deception 1, Persuade 1, Melee (unarmed) 1 or
Stealth 1.
Vocational Training. Roll EDU 8+ to gain any one skill except Jack-of-all-Trades.
Prison Event.
1. Riot. A riot engulfs the prison. Roll 1D. On a 1–2, you are injured – roll on the Injury table. On a
5–6, you are able to loot something useful; gain an extra Benefit roll this term.
2. New Contact. You make friends with another inmate; gain them as a Contact.
3. New Rival. You gain a new Rival among the inmates or guards.
4. Transferred. You are moved to a different prison. Re-roll your Parole Threshold.
5. Good Behaviour. Reduce your Parole Threshold by -2.
6. You are attacked by another prisoner. Roll Melee (unarmed) 8+. If you fail, roll on the Injury table.
Parole hearing. Reduce your Parole Threshold by -1.
You have the opportunity to hire a new lawyer, with your choice of Advocate skill. They cost Cr1000
x their Advocate level squared. Roll 2D + your lawyer’s Advocate skill; on an 8+, reduce your Parole
Threshold by 1D.
Special Duty. You are given a special responsibility in the prison. Gain one of Admin, Advocate,
Electronics (computers) or Steward.
The warden takes an interest in your case. Reduce your Parole Threshold by -2.
Heroism. You have the opportunity to save a guard or prison officer. If you take the risk, roll 2D. On a
7 or less, roll on the Injury table. On 8+, gain an Ally and reduce your Parole Threshold by -2.

13

traveller creation

10

MISHAP
Severely injured (this is the same as a result of 2 on the Injury table). Alternatively, roll twice on the
Injury table and take the lower result.
You are accused of assaulting a prison guard. Parole Threshold +2.
A prison gang persecutes you. You may choose to fight back if you wish but, if you do not, you lose
all Benefit rolls from your Prisoner career. If you fight back, roll Melee (unarmed) 8+. Fail and you
must roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result. Succeed and you gain an Enemy and
raise Parole Threshold by +1.
A guard takes a dislike to you. Gain an Enemy and raise your Parole Threshold by +1.
Disgraced. Word of your criminal past reaches your homeworld. Lose 1 SOC.
Injured. Roll on the Injury table (see page 49).

57

