SKILLS AND TASKS
Skills and Tasks

Every Traveller will acquire a variety of skills during
creation that will indicate the tasks they perform well.
•
•

•

If a Traveller has no level in a skill at all, then
they are untrained and will suffer DM-3 when
trying to use that skill.
If a Traveller has zero level in a skill (Skill 0), then
they are competent in using that skill but have
probably had little experience in actually using it.
They do not get any bonus from their skill level but
at least avoid the penalty for being untrained.
If a Traveller has one or more levels in a skill (Skill
1, Skill 2, and so on.) then they are trained in
that skill. Each level represents several years of
experience using that skill and grants DM+1 per
level to all skill checks using that skill. A Traveller
with level 2–3 in a skill is a skilled professional in
that field. A Traveller with level 4 or 5 is probably
both well-respected and well-known in their field.

For example, a Traveller with Medic 1 may be a
paramedic or nurse, while another Traveller with
Medic 2 might be a doctor. If a Traveller had Medic 3,
they would likely be a very well-regarded doctor with
many years of practice under their belt. A Traveller
with Medic 4 or 5 would be at least world-renowned
and may well be known across several star systems
for their expertise.

SPECIALTIES

Some skills have specialities – specialised, more
focused forms of that skill. A Traveller picks a
speciality when they gain level 1 in a skill that has two
or more specialities.
For example, a Traveller might have Engineer 0,
allowing them to make Engineer skill checks without
the unskilled penalty. They might then gain a level in
Engineer, at which point they would need to choose
a speciality. For Engineer, this is a choice between
j-drive, m-drive, power plant and life support.
If they choose j-drive, they would record this on their
character sheet as Engineer (j-drive) 1. They would
then make all Engineer checks involving jump drives at

58

DM+1 but would still make all other Engineer checks at
DM+0 (in other words, with no penalty). A Traveller can
have multiple specialities in a skill – they might have
Engineer (j-drive) 1 and Engineer (power plant) 2. They
would therefore make checks related to jump drives
with DM+1, checks related to power plants with DM+2
and all other Engineer checks with DM+0.

TASK CHECKS

Most actions undertaken by Travellers do not require
a skill check. A Traveller does not have to make an
Athletics check to run through a forest or Electronics
(computers) to access information from their ship’s
library. Some actions will require the Traveller to have a
particular skill but will still not require a check. A Traveller
with Flyer 0, for example, can fly an air/raft under normal
conditions without having to make a check.
The referee should only call for checks when:
•
•
•
•

The Travellers are in danger.
The task is especially difficult or hazardous.
The Travellers are under the pressure of time.
Success or failure is especially important or
interesting.

MAKING CHECKS

To make a check, the Traveller rolls 2D and includes
any appropriate Dice Modifiers (DM). If the total is 8 or
more, the Traveller succeeds.
The most common forms of task checks are
characteristic checks and skill checks.

CHARACTERISTIC CHECKS

The Traveller adds their characteristic DM. For example:
•
•
•
•

When forcing open a sealed door on a derelict ship,
a Traveller would use their STR Dice Modifier.
When balancing on a narrow beam, a Traveller
would use their DEX Dice Modifier.
When trying to endure a long trek through the desert,
a Traveller would use their END Dice Modifier.
When trying to decipher an alien puzzle-box, a
Traveller uses their INT Dice Modifier.

