•
•

When attempting to remember some trivia or piece
of common knowledge, a Traveller uses their EDU
Dice Modifier.
When trying to impress a guard with their wealth or
position, a Traveller uses their SOC Dice Modifier.

SKILL CHECKS

For a skill check, the Traveller adds both their skill
level and, if appropriate, a characteristic DM. The
combination of skill and characteristic varies depending
on the situation, as chosen by the referee:
•
•
•
•
•

Shooting a gun would use the appropriate Gun
Combat skill and the Traveller’s DEX Dice Modifier.
Repairing a damaged gun might use Gun Combat
and EDU.
Trying to work out what sort of gun caused a
particular wound might use Gun Combat and INT
(or perhaps Investigate and INT).
Hiding from an enemy soldier would call for Stealth
and DEX, while staying still for a long time to avoid
detection would be a Stealth plus END check.
Just generally carousing at a party might use
Carouse on its own, without any particular
characteristic. If the Traveller wants to beat

someone in a drinking contest, then they might use
Carouse and END; spotting who is out of place at
a party would be Carouse and INT, and snubbing
someone might use Carouse and SOC.
If a Traveller does not have any levels in a skill used in a
check, they suffer DM-3 on the check for being unskilled.
To summarise;
To make a normal (Average) skill check, a Traveller rolls
2D + Skill Level + Characteristic DM + any other relevant
DMs and must get a total of 8 or more to succeed.
For example, Kathya (DEX 10, Stealth 0), Erik (DEX 6,
Stealth 2) and Morn (DEX 12, no Stealth) are all trying
to sneak down a corridor. Kathya has DEX DM+1 and
while she gets no DM from only having Stealth 0, she
at least avoids the unskilled penalty. Her final modifier
is DM+1; she rolls 2D+1 and tries to get 8 or more. Erik
has DEX DM+0 but has Stealth 2. His final modifier is
DM+2; he rolls 2D+2 and tries to get 8 or more. Morn is
more dexterous than either of his companions, with his
DEX DM+2. However, he has no Stealth skill at all and
so suffers DM-3 for being unskilled. His final modifier is
DM-1, so he rolls 2D-1 and tries to get 8 or more.

skills and tasks

59

