These difficulties are summarised on the Task
Difficulty table.

Task Difficulty
Difficulty

Simple
Easy
Routine
Average
Difficult
Very Difficult
Formidable
Impossible

Target Number
2+
4+
6+
8+
10+
12+
14+
16+

For example, Erik (INT 9, Carouse 1) is trying to find
information about a mysterious ship that landed at the
starport. He goes to a bar frequented by wanderers and
spacers, hoping to pick up a rumour. This is a Carouse
check and the referee says that it is a Difficult (10+) task.
Erik has one level of Carouse, which grants him DM+1,
an INT of 9 (for an additional DM+1), giving him a final of
DM+2. He rolls 2D+2 and tries to get 10 or more.
Note that if no difficulty is listed for a check, you can
always assume it is Average (8+).

BOON AND BANE

The task difficulty levels allow a referee to pre-plan the
skill and characteristic checks Travellers will need to
succeed in during an adventure. However, there will
likely be situations that arise that will make things either
easier or harder for the Travellers. This is where Boons
and Banes come in.

If a Traveller has help, such as good tools, competent
aids or other beneficial circumstances, they receive a
Boon. This means they roll an extra dice during a check
and discard the lowest.
If a Traveller is hindered in a check, such as with
poor tools, a dimly lit environment or other negative
circumstances, they receive a Bane. This means they
roll an extra dice during a check and discard the highest.
A Traveller can only be under the influence of one Boon
or Bane during any one check. If they receive both a
Boon and a Bane for the same check, they cancel out
and no extra dice are rolled. At the same time, if they
receive multiple Boons or Banes, they will only be
subject to one.

EFFECT

For most situations, the only thing that needs to be
determined is whether or not the Traveller succeeds.
If the Traveller’s total throw after applying all Dice
Modifiers equals or exceeds the target difficulty (eight
or more for an Average check), they succeed. If it is
less, they fail.
Often, however, it is important to know how well the
Traveller did – or how bad. To do this, subtract the target
number from the dice roll of the check, including any
modifiers. This margin of success (or failure) is the Effect
that can be consulted on the Effect Results table. This is
also used in combat to calculate damage (see below).
For example, if a Traveller rolls a 4 and a 3 for an
Average (8+) check, then applies DM+3 for a total of
10, their Effect is (10 – 8) 2.

Effect Results
Effect

-2 to -5
-1

0
1 to 5
6 or
more

Success or Failure

Exceptional Failure: The Traveller failed as completely as it is possible to fail. Anything that can go
wrong goes wrong. If attempting to repair a device, the device is further damaged or even destroyed.
In a social situation, the Traveller gets into further trouble.
Average Failure: The Traveller has failed the task.
Marginal Failure: The Traveller has almost succeeded and the referee may permit them to scrape a
success if they take a significant consequence. A Traveller trying to jump across a chasm hangs onto the
far side by their fingernails but can only pull themselves up if they drop their backpack. A Traveller trying
to land a ship can bring it down safely but the ship may never fly again. A Traveller hacking a computer
gets in but the security programs can trace their location.
Marginal Success: The Traveller barely succeeds at the task and may have to accept a condition on
their success. They fix the engine but it will overheat. They find a buyer for the goods but the buyer is an
untrustworthy criminal.
Average Success: The Traveller succeeds normally.
Exceptional Success: The Traveller succeeds in an impressive and elegant fashion.


skills and tasks

-6 or
less

61

