

Each Skill is described using the following format.
For example, Erik and Kathya are trying to force open
a locked door within a smuggler’s asteroid lair with
brute strength. Erik is the strongest with STR 9 and so
he puts his shoulder into the door but fears he alone
mighty not be enough. Kathya has STR 7 and helps.
Kathya makes an STR check and consults the Task
Chain table in order to provide a DM to Erik’s STR
check, which will determine whether the door is forced
open or not.

DIFFICULTY, BOON/BANE AND DMS

There are three factors that can affect a check in
Traveller; Task Difficulty, Boons and Banes, and
Dice Modifiers. However, all three are used in
very specific circumstances and referees should
use the following principles when applying them.
Difficulty: Before any other factors are taken
into account, the referee should set the
difficulty of a task, based on how hard they
believe the task should be without any exterior
effects. For example, making a phone call is a
Simple task and remains so, even if a Traveller
is hanging upside down from a spacecraft
flying through a storm.

skills and tasks

Dice Modifiers: In general, these should be
regarded as being ‘hard-wired’ into the rules
and only applied if they are listed in a Traveller
rulebook or supplement.

64

Boon and Bane: If an exterior factor is
influencing the task, for better or worse, then a
Boon or Bane is applied to the check. Making
a phone call while hanging upside down from
a spacecraft is a good example of a Bane
being applied. Boons and Banes are applied
only at the prerogative of the referee and will
never appear within any rulebook or published
adventure. They are intended to be used on
the fly to quickly provide an advantage or
disadvantage to Travellers.
In the vast majority of cases, a referee simply need
set a Task Difficulty and then decide whether a
Boon or Bane need be applied. Any necessary
Dice Modifiers will be suggested by the rules.

Description: What the skill does.
Specialities: If the skill has several specialities, they are
listed here. When a Traveller reaches level 1 in a skill,
they must take a speciality in that skill at level 1. When
they gain another level in the skill, they may increase that
speciality to level 2 or take a different speciality. Most
skills have no specialities.
Common Checks: Common uses for the skill and what
time increment, characteristic DM and difficulty are
associated with those uses.

Admin
This skill covers bureaucracies and administration of all
sorts, including the navigation of bureaucratic obstacles
or disasters. It also covers tracking inventories, ship
manifests and other records.
Avoiding Close Examination of Papers: Average (8+)
Admin check (1D x 10 seconds, EDU or SOC).
Dealing with Police Harassment: Difficult (10+) Admin
check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU or SOC).

Advocate
Advocate gives a knowledge of common legal codes
and practises, especially interstellar law. It also gives the
Traveller experience in oratory, debate and public speaking,
making it an excellent skill for lawyers and politicians.
Arguing in Court: Opposed Advocate check (1D days,
EDU or SOC).
Debating an Argument: Opposed Advocate check (1D x
10 minutes, INT).

Animals
This skill, rare on industrialised or technologically
advanced worlds, is for the care of animals.

Specialities
•

Handling: The Traveller knows how to handle
an animal and ride those trained to bear a rider.
Unusual animals raise the difficulty of the check.
Riding a Horse into Battle: Difficult (10+) Animals
(handling) check (1D seconds, DEX). If successful,
the Traveller can control the horse for a number of
minutes equal to the Effect before needing to make
another check.

