•

•

Veterinary: The Traveller is trained in veterinary
medicine and animal care.
Applying Medical Care: See the Medic skill on page
69, but use the Animals (veterinary) skill.
Training: The Traveller knows how to tame and
train animals.
Taming a Strange Alien Creature: Formidable (14+)
Animals (training) check (1D days, INT).

Art
The Traveller is trained in a type of creative art.

Specialities
•

•

•

•

•

Astrogation
This skill is for plotting the courses of starships and
calculating accurate jumps. See the Spacecraft
Operations chapter.
Plotting Course to a Target World Using a Gas Giant
for a Gravity Slingshot: Difficult (10+) Astrogation check
(1D x 10 minutes, EDU).
Plotting a Standard Jump: Easy (4+) Astrogation
check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU), with DM- equal to the
Jump distance.


The Traveller is a trained athlete and is physically
fit. The Athletics skill effectively augments a
Traveller’s physical characteristics; whatever you
can do with Strength alone you can also add your
Athletics (strength) DM to, for example. Athletics is
also the principal skill used in adverse gravitational
environments, specifically Athletics (dexterity) in low or
zero-G and Athletics (strength) in high-G locations.

Specialities
•

•

•

Dexterity: Climbing, Juggling, Throwing. For alien
species with wings, this also includes flying.
Climbing: Difficulty varies. Athletics (dexterity)
check (1D x 10 seconds, DEX). So long as they
succeed, the Traveller’s Effect is usually irrelevant
unless they are trying to do something while
climbing, in which case the climbing is part of a task
chain or multiple action.
Sprinting: Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity) check
(1D seconds, DEX). If the Traveller does nothing
but sprint flat out they can cover 24 + Effect metres
with every check. Avoiding obstacles while sprinting
requires another Athletics (dexterity) check (Difficult,
because they are performing a multiple action).
High Jumping: Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity) check
(1D seconds, DEX). The Traveller jumps a number of
metres straight up equal to the Effect halved.
Long Jumping: Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity)
check (1D seconds, DEX). The Traveller jumps a
number of metres forward equal to the Effect with a
running start.
Righting Yourself When Artificial Gravity Suddenly
Fails on Board a Ship: Average (8+) Athletics
(dexterity) check (1D seconds, DEX).
Endurance: Long-distance running, hiking
Long-distance Running: Average (8+) Athletics
(endurance) check (1D x 10 minutes, END).
Long-distance Swimming: Average (8+) Athletics
(endurance) check (1D x 10 minutes, END).
Strength: Feats of strength, weight-lifting.
Arm Wrestling: Opposed Athletics (strength) check
(1D minutes, STR).
Feats of Strength: Average (8+) Athletics (strength)
check (1D x 10 seconds, STR).
Performing a Complicated Task in a High Gravity
Environment: Difficult (10+) Athletics (strength)
check (1D seconds, STR).

skills and tasks

Performer: The Traveller is a trained actor, dancer
or singer at home on the stage, screen or holo.
Performing a Play: Average (8+) Art (performer)
check (1D hours, EDU).
Convincing a Person you are Actually Someone
Else: Art (performer) check (INT) opposed by Recon
check (INT).
Holography: Recording and producing aesthetically
pleasing and clear holographic images.
Surreptitiously Switching on Your Recorder
While in a Secret Meeting: Formidable (14+) Art
(holography) check (1D seconds, DEX).
Instrument: Playing a particular musical
instrument, such a flute, piano or organ.
Playing a Concerto: Difficult (10+) Art (instrument)
check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU).
Visual Media: Making artistic or abstract paintings
or sculptures in a variety of media.
Making a Statue of Someone: Difficult (10+) Art
(visual media) check (1D days, INT).
Write: Composing inspiring or interesting pieces
of text.
Rousing the People of a Planet by Exposing Their
Government’s Corruption: Difficult (10+) Art (write)
check (1D hours, INT or EDU).
Writing the Update of Traveller: Formidable (14+)
Art (write) check (1D months, INT).

Athletics

65

