T

Broker
The Broker skill allows a Traveller to negotiate trades
and arrange fair deals. It is heavily used when trading
(see the Trade chapter).
Negotiating a Deal: Average (8+) Broker check (1D
hours, INT).
Finding a Buyer: Average (8+) Broker check (1D
hours, SOC).

R

skills and tasks

Deception allows a Traveller to lie fluently, disguise
themselves, perform sleight of hand and fool
onlookers. Most underhanded ways of cheating and
lying fall under deception.

66

Convincing a Guard to let you Past Without ID: Very
Difficult (12+) Deception check (1D minutes, INT).
Alternatively, oppose with a Recon check.
Palming a Credit Chit: Average (8+) Deception check
(1D seconds, DEX).
Disguising Yourself as a Wealthy Noble to Fool a Client:
Difficult (10+) Deception check (1D x 10 minutes, INT
or SOC). Alternatively, oppose with a Recon check.

Diplomat
The Diplomat skill is for negotiating deals, establishing
peaceful contact and smoothing over social faux pas.
It includes how to behave in high society and proper
ways to address nobles. It is a much more formal skill
than Persuade.
Greeting the Emperor Properly: Difficult (10+) Diplomat
check (1D minutes, SOC).
Negotiating a Peace Treaty: Average (8+) Diplomat
check (1D days, EDU).
Transmitting a Formal Surrender: Average (8+)
Diplomat check (1D x 10 seconds, INT).


E

L

L

E

This skill is for controlling ground vehicles of various
types. There are several specialities.

Specialities
•

•

Carousing is the art of socialising; having fun, but also
ensuring other people have fun, and infectious good
humour. It also covers social awareness and subterfuge
in such situations.

Deception

V

Drive

Carouse

Drinking Someone Under the Table: Opposed Carouse
check (1D hours, END). Difficulty varies by liquor.
Gathering Rumours at a Party: Average (8+) Carouse
check (1D hours, SOC).

A

•

•

•

Hovercraft: Vehicles that rely on a cushion of air
and thrusters for motion.
Manoeuvring a Hovercraft Through a Tight
Canal: Difficult (10+) Drive (hovercraft) check (1D
minutes, DEX).
Mole: For controlling vehicles that move through
solid matter using drills or other earth-moving
technologies, such as plasma torches or cavitation.
Surfacing in the Right Place: Average (8+) Drive
(mole) check (1D x 10 minutes, INT).
Precisely Controlling a Dig to Expose a Vein of
Minerals: Difficult (10+) Drive (mole) check (1D x 10
minutes, DEX).
Track: For tanks and other vehicles that move
on tracks.
Manoeuvring (or Smashing, Depending on the
Vehicle) Through a Forest: Difficult (10+) Drive
(tracked) check (1D minutes, DEX).
Driving a Tank into a Cargo Bay: Average (8+)
Drive (tracked) check (1D x 10 seconds, DEX).
Walker: Vehicles that use two or more legs to
manoeuvre.
Negotiating Rough Terrain: Difficult (10+) Drive
(walker) check (1D minutes, DEX).
Wheel: For automobiles and similar groundcars.
Driving a Groundcar in a Short Race: Opposed Drive
(wheeled) check (1D minutes, DEX). Longer races
might use END instead of DEX.
Avoiding an Unexpected Obstacle on the Road: Average
(8+) Drive (wheeled) check (1D seconds, DEX).

Electronics
This skill is used to operate electronic devices such
as computers and ship-board systems. Higher levels
represent the ability to repair and create electronic
devices and systems. There are several specialities.

Specialities
•

Comms: The use of modern telecommunications;
opening communications channels, querying
computer networks, jamming signals and so on, as
well as the proper protocols for communicating with
starports and other spacecraft.
Requesting Landing Privileges at a Starport:
Routine (6+) Electronic (comms) check (1D
minutes, EDU).

R

