•

•

•

Engineer
The Engineer skill is used to operate and maintain
spacecraft and advanced vehicles. Engineer can
be used to make repairs on damaged systems on
spacecraft and advanced vehicles. For repairs on
simpler machines and systems, use the Mechanic skill.

Specialities
•

•

•

•

M-drive: Maintaining and operating a spacecraft’s
manoeuvre drive, as well as its artificial gravity.
Overcharging a Thruster Plate to Increase a Ship’s
Agility: Difficult (10+) Engineer (m-drive) check (1D
minutes, INT).
Estimating a Ship’s Tonnage From its Observed
Performance: Average (8+) Engineer (m-drive)
check (1D x 10 seconds, INT).
J-drive: Maintaining and operating a spacecraft’s
jump drive.
Making a Jump: Easy (4+) Engineer (j-drive) check
(1D x 10 minutes, EDU).
Life Support: Covers oxygen generators, heating
and lighting and other necessary life support systems.
Safely Reducing Power to Life Support to Prolong
a Ship’s Battery Life: Average (8+) Engineer (life
support) check (1D minutes, EDU).
Power: Maintaining and operating a spacecraft’s
power plant.
Monitoring an Enemy ship’s Power Output to
Determine its Capabilities: Difficult (10+) Engineer
(power) check (1D minutes, INT).

Explosives
The Explosives skill covers the use of demolition
charges and other explosive devices, including
assembling or disarming bombs. A failed Explosives
check with an Effect of -4 or less can result in a bomb
detonating prematurely.
Planting Charges to Collapse a Wall in a Building:
Average (8+) Explosives check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU).
Planting a Breaching Charge: Average (8+) Explosives
check (1D x 10 seconds, EDU). The damage from the
explosive is multiplied by the Effect.
Disarming a Bomb Equipped with Anti-Tamper Trembler
Detonators: Formidable (14+) Explosives check (1D
minutes, DEX).

skills and tasks

Accessing Publicly Available but Obscure Data
Over Comms: Average (8+) Electronic (comms)
check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU).
Bouncing a Signal off Orbiting Satellite to Hide Your
Transmitter: Difficult (10+) Electronics (comms)
check (1D x 10 minutes, INT).
Jamming a Comms System: Opposed Electronics
(comms) check (1D minutes, INT). Difficult (10+) for
radio, Very Difficult (12+) for laser and Formidable
(14+) for masers. A Traveller using a comms
system with a higher Technology Level than their
opponent gains DM+1 for every TL of difference.
Computers: Using and controlling computer
systems and similar electronics and electrics.
Accessing Publicly Available Data: Easy (4+)
Electronics (computers) check (1D minutes, INT
or EDU).
Activating a Computer Program on a Ship’s
Computer: Routine (6+) Electronics (computers)
check (1D x 10 seconds, INT or EDU).
Searching a Corporate Database for Evidence
of Illegal Activity: Difficult (10+) Electronics
(computers) check (1D hours, INT).
Hacking into a Secure Computer Network:
Formidable (14+) Electronics (computers) check
(1D x 10 hours, INT). Hacking is aided by Intrusion
programs and made more difficult by Security
programs. The Effect determines the amount of
data retrieved; failure means the targeted system
may be able to trace the hacking attempt.
Remote Ops: Using telepresence to remotely
control drones, missiles, robots and other devices.
Using a Mining Drone to Excavate an Asteroid:
Routine (6+) Electronics (remote ops) check (1D
hours, DEX).
Sensors: The use and interpretation of data
from electronic sensor devices, from observation
satellites and remote probes to thermal imaging
and densitometers.
Making a Detailed Sensor Scan: Routine (6+)
Electronics (sensors) check (1D x 10 minutes, INT
or EDU).
Analysing Sensor Data: Average (8+) Electronics
(sensors) check (1D hours, INT).

67

