Investigate

The Investigate skill incorporates keen observation,
forensics and detailed analysis.
Searching a Crime Scene For Clues: Average (8+)
Investigate check (1D x 10 minutes, INT).
Watching a Bank of Security Monitors in a Starport,
Waiting for a Specific Criminal: Difficult (10+)
Investigate check (1D hours, INT).

Jack-of-All-Trades

The Jack-of-All-Trades skill works differently to other
skills. It reduces the unskilled penalty a Traveller
receives for not having the appropriate skill by one
for every level of Jack-of-All-Trades. For example, if
a Traveller does not have the Pilot skill, they suffer
DM-3 to all Pilot checks. If that Traveller has Jackof-All-Trades 2, then the penalty is reduced by 2 to
DM-1. With Jack-of-All-Trades 3, a Traveller can totally
negate the penalty for being unskilled.
There is no benefit for having Jack-of-All-Trades 0 or
Jack-of-All-Trades 4 or higher.

Language

There are numerous different Language specialities,
each one covering reading and writing in a different
language. All Travellers can speak and read their
native language without needing the Language skill
and automated computer translator programs mean
Language skills are not always needed on other worlds.
Having Language 0 implies the Traveller has a smattering
of simple phrases in a few common languages.

Specialities

Ordering a Meal, Asking for Basic Directions: Routine
(6+) Language check (1D seconds, EDU).
Holding a Simple Conversation: Average (8+)
Language check (1D x 10 seconds, EDU).


Leadership

The Leadership skill is for directing, inspiring and
rallying allies and comrades. A Traveller may make a
Leadership action in combat, as detailed on page 74.
Shouting an Order: Average (8+) Leadership check (1D
seconds, SOC).
Rallying Shaken Troops: Difficult (10+) Leadership
check (1D seconds, SOC).

Mechanic

The Mechanic skill allows a Traveller to maintain and
repair most equipment – some advanced equipment and
spacecraft components require the Engineer skill. Unlike
the narrower and more focused Engineer or Science
skills, Mechanic does not allow a Traveller to build new
devices or alter existing ones – it is purely for repairs and
maintenance but covers all types of equipment.
Repairing a Damaged System in the Field: Average
(8+) Mechanic check (1D minutes, INT or EDU).

Medic

The Medic skill covers emergency first aid and
battlefield triage as well as diagnosis, treatment,
surgery and long-term care. See Injury and Recovery
on page 82.
First Aid: Average (8+) Medic check (1D rounds, EDU).
The patient regains lost characteristic points equal to
the Effect.
Treat Poison or Disease: Average (8+) Medic check
(1D hours, EDU).
Long-term Care: Average (8+) Medic check (1 day, EDU).

skills and tasks

There are, of course, as many specialities of Language
as there are actual languages. Those presented here
are examples from the Third Imperium setting.
• Galanglic: The common trade language of the
Third Imperium, derived originally from the English
spoken in the Rule of Man.
• Vilani: The language spoken by the Vilani of the
First Imperium; the ‘Latin’ of the Third Imperium.
• Zdetl: The Zhodani spoken language.
• Oynprith: The Droyne ritual language.
• Trokh: The Aslan spoken language.
• Gvegh: The Vargr spoken language.

Understanding a Complex Technical Document or
Report: Very Difficult (12+) Language check (1D
minutes, EDU).

69

