Note that unless a weapon has the Scope trait (see
page 79), all attacks made at a range greater than 100
metres are automatically considered to be Extreme
Range. This assumes the Traveller is in a combat
situation – if the Traveller is in a no-stress environment,
the referee is free to increase this to 300 metres.

MELEE ATTACKS

Damage: This is the base amount of damage dealt by
the weapon when it successfully hits a target. Damage
is covered in more detail below.

Armour reduces the damage sustained in an attack by
the value of its Protection score. An attack with Effect 6+
always inflicts at least one point of damage, regardless
of the actual damage rolled or the Protection score.

Kg: A simple measure of the mass of the weapon. This
will affect how much a Traveller can carry.
Cost: The cost of buying the weapon, in Credits.

When a melee attack is successful, the attacker adds their
STR DM to the damage rolled for the weapon, in addition
to the Effect of the attack roll. Bigger things hit harder!

ARMOUR

Some weapons have the AP, or Armour Piercing, trait.
These weapons ignore an amount of Armour equal to
their AP score.

Magazine: Most ranged weapons are capable of
holding more than one round or projectile before they
need reloading. How many shots can be fired before
reloading is necessary is noted here.

COVER

Magazine Cost: This is simply the cost of a spare
magazine that will fully reload the weapon.

A Traveller using cover to shield themselves while
engaging in combat inflicts DM-2 against all ranged
attacks made against them.

Traits: Some weapons have special rules. These will be
listed here and are covered in more detail on page 79.

When the bullets start flying, Travellers are advised to
take cover behind something solid, ducking back when
shot at and popping up to return fire.

HIDING

DAMAGE

If a Traveller is able to position themselves completely
in cover so the enemy cannot see them, and chooses
not to make any attacks, they can hide.

•

However, if an enemy is aware of the Traveller’s
presence, they can still be attacked. The Traveller gains
all the benefits of cover but also gains a bonus to their
armour’s Protection (or giving the Traveller Protection
if they did not already have one). The amount of bonus
Protection a target receives depends on the type of
cover it is hiding behind.

Each weapon in Traveller lists the damage it inflicts as
a number of dice. A rifle, for example, has a Damage
score of 3D:

•

•

When characteristics have been eroded by damage,
their DMs should be recalculated and the impaired DM
used until the damage is healed.

If a Traveller could potentially claim cover from two
different types of cover (for example, they have
ducked down behind a ground car within a forest
and also has trees between themselves and their
attacker) then they only receive a Protection bonus
from the most effective cover.
The following table gives some examples of Protection
bonuses granted by cover. The referee is free to devise
their own based on the values of this table:

combat

•

Upon a successful attack, damage is rolled for, with
the Effect of the attack roll added to the total.
Damage is initially applied to a target’s END. If
a target is reduced to 0 END, then any excess
damage is deducted from either the target’s STR or
DEX (target’s choice of which).
If either STR or DEX are reduced to 0, the Traveller
becomes unconscious and any further damage is
deducted from the remaining physical characteristic.
If all three physical characteristics (STR, DEX
and END) are reduced to 0, the Traveller has
been killed.

Healing damage is covered on page 82.


77

