WEAPON TRAITS

Radiation: When a Radiation weapon is fired, the
target will receive 2D x 20 rads (see page 81),
multiplied by three for Spacecraft scale weapons (so,
they deal 2D x 60 rads). If the Radiation weapon is
Destructive, every target within 10 metres will also
receive 2D x 20 rads.

AP X: This weapon has the ability to punch through
armour through the use of specially shaped ammunition
or high technology. It will ignore an amount of
Protection equal to the AP score listed. Spacecraft
scale targets (see page 167) ignore the AP trait unless
the weapon making the attack is also Spacecraft scale.

Scope: The weapon has been fitted with visionenhancing sights, allowing it to put shots on target
from far greater ranges. A weapon with the Scope trait
ignores the rule that limits all attacks made at a range
greater than 100 metres are automatically treated as
being at Extreme range, so long as the Traveller aims
before shooting.

Some weapons have additional special rules that will
greatly affect their use. These special rules are listed
under the Traits section of a weapon’s description and are
detailed here.

Auto X: These weapons fire multiple rounds with every
pull of the trigger, filling the air with a hail of fire. A
weapon with the Auto trait can make attacks in three
fire modes: single, burst and full auto. Attacks using the
Auto trait lose any benefits gained from aiming.
•
•
•

Single: Attacks are made using the normal combat
rules.
Burst: Add the Auto score to damage. This uses a
number of rounds equal to the Auto score.
Full Auto: Make a number of attacks equal to the
Auto score. These attacks can be made against
separate targets so long as they are all within six
metres of one another. Full auto uses a number of
rounds equal to three times the Auto score.

A weapon cannot use the Auto trait in the same action
as the Scope trait or an aiming action.
Blast X: This weapon has an explosive component
or is otherwise able to affect targets spread across a
wide area. Upon a successful attack, damage is rolled
against every target within the weapon’s Blast score
in metres. Dodge Reactions may not be made against
a Blast weapon but targets may dive for cover. Cover
may be taken advantage of if it lies between a target
and the centre of the weapon’s Blast.

Stun: These weapons are designed to deal non-lethal
damage, incapacitating a living target rather than killing
it. Damage is only deducted from END, taking into
account any Protection. If the target’s END is reduced
to 0, the target will be incapacitated and unable to
perform any actions for a number of rounds by which
the damage exceeded their END. Damage received
from Stun weapons is completely healed by one hour
of rest.
Very Bulky: Some weapons are designed only for the
strongest combatants. A Traveller using a Very Bulky
weapon must have STR 12 or higher to use it without
penalty. Otherwise, all attack rolls will have a negative DM
equal to the difference between their STR DM and +2.
Zero-G: This weapon has little or no recoil, allowing
it to be used in low or zero gravity situations without
requiring an Athletics (dexterity) check.

combat

Bulky: A Bulky weapon has a powerful recoil or is
simply extremely heavy – this makes it difficult to use
effectively in combat by someone of a weak physical
stature. A Traveller using a Bulky weapon must have
STR 9 or higher to use it without penalty. Otherwise,
all attack rolls will have a negative DM equal to the
difference between their STR DM and +1.

Smart: This weapon has intelligent or semi-intelligent
rounds able to guide themselves onto a target. They
gain a DM to their attack rolls equal to the difference
between their TL and that of the target (usually their
armour or vehicle, although Smart weapons can also
home in one communications devices, computers and
weapons). This DM will be a minimum of DM+1 and a
maximum of DM+6.

79

