the use of pressured or powered suits to support the
human frame. Travellers on high-gravity worlds suffer
DM-1 to all skill checks until they acclimatise, a process
that takes 1D weeks. Travellers with the Athletics
(strength) skill acclimatise within 1D days.
Low Gravity: Environments that have a gravity of 0.7
G or less (typically worlds of Size 6 or smaller) are
classed as being Low Gravity. Humans tend to find
life on low-gravity worlds to be initially pleasant but
regular exercise regimes and medicinal supplements
are required to prevent bone and muscle degradation.
Those who spent too long on low-gravity worlds cannot
tolerate higher gravities. Travellers on low-gravity
worlds suffer DM-1 to all physical skill checks until
they acclimatise, a process which takes 1D weeks.
Travellers with the Athletics (dexterity) skill acclimatise
within 1D days.
Zero Gravity: A Traveller in a zero gravity situation
suffers all the effects of Low Gravity (the world Size is
assumed to be 0). In addition, they must be careful to
watch for things that can affect their momentum – most
notably, firing weapons that have recoil.
Every time the Traveller uses a close combat weapon
or any ranged weapon that does not have the Zero-G
trait, they must make an Average (8+) Athletics
(dexterity) check or not only automatically miss their
target but start to spin helplessly out of control.
A Traveller spinning out of control in zero gravity
may regain control with an Average (8+) Athletics
(dexterity) check.

RADIATION

Radiation Effects

Immediate Radiation
Exposure
Immediate Effects
50 rads or less
51–150 rads

151–300 rads
301–500 rads
501–800 rads
801 rads or more

None
1D damage, Nausea (-1 to all checks
until medical treatment received)
2D damage
4D damage, hair loss
6D damage, sterile
8D damage, internal bleeding

Radiation exposure is measured in rads. Once a
Traveller has absorbed a certain number of rads, they
will suffer the effects of radiation. One problem with
radiation exposure is that while physical symptoms can
be treated and may heal, the cumulative effects of the
radiation itself never go away. The Traveller’s rads must
be kept track of and further exposure adds to what
the Traveller is already suffering until a deadly level is
reached. Accumulated rads can only be removed by
using anti-rad drugs.
Radiation effects are suffered each time a Traveller
is exposed to radiation, and as a result of cumulative
rads over time. Thus a Traveller who has absorbed
75 rads in the past and subsequently recovered from
the effects, who then absorbs another 20 rads from a
solar flare, now has a total of 95 rads, whether they
suffer any serious effects this time or not. They are
fast approaching a moderate dose, as shown on the
Radiation Effects table.
Travellers exposed to a weapon with the Radiation
trait will receive a one-time dose of radiation. Entering
a radioactive area or being exposed to a leak or solar
flare will cause exposure every few minutes or hours.

Radiation Exposure
Radiation Source
Minor reactor leak
Serious reactor leak
Minor solar flare
Major solar flare
Radiation weapon

Rads Received
2D/hour
2D/20 minutes
1D x 100/hour
3D x 100/hour
2D x 20 immediately

Vacc suits and other measures of protection reduce
radiation exposure, as shown on page 81. The hull of a
spacecraft decreases the radiation exposure of those
inside by 500.

Cumulative Radiation
Exposure

Cumulative Effects

50 rads or less
51–150 rads

None
None

151–300 rads
301–500 rads
501–800 rads
801 rads or more

-1 END permanently
-2 END permanently
-3 END permanently
-4 END permanently

Encounters and Dangers

Radiation is a constant danger throughout space.
Spacecraft hull materials shield against most radiation;
coupled with the added protection offered by hydrogen
fuel tanks lining the inner hull means that exposure
suffered by most spacers is only a few times that of
being planetside. Travellers in vessels flying too close

to a star or with breached hulls or damaged reactors
do risk exposure and the presence of harmful radiation
on worlds or in combat means Travellers must be wary
when they step off their ships.

81

