
Solar flares are therefore still dangerous even to a
starship, so when a serious flare is detected vessels
usually try to take cover behind asteroids, moons and
so forth, or at least have their crew don vacc suits to
increase their protection. Orbital stations in systems
with a lot of flare activity have layers of radiationabsorbent materials and personnel sanctuaries with
even more protection and can ride out even the worst
flares. This level of protection is too bulky for all but the
most specialised starships.

SUFFOCATION

A spacecraft or self-contained, sealed structure with
power can usually sustain life support for one person
per stateroom for one month comfortably, and for six
months at a stretch (number of staterooms x 5,000
person/hours). Without power, this drops to two weeks
at most. Various shelters will list the amount of air and
life support available if they differ.
Without life support, a Traveller begins to suffocate,
suffering 1D damage each minute. A Traveller who is
utterly without air (such as one being smothered or
strangled or who has been thrown out of an airlock)
suffers 1D damage each round instead.

TEMPERATURE

Unusually hot or cold worlds can cause damage
(starting with END) unless the Travellers are suitably
protected. Temperatures are in Celsius.

Encounters and dangers

VACUUM

82

If a Traveller finds themselves outside of a spacecraft
without a vacc suit, in the cold vacuum, they are in very
big trouble.
Any air in the lungs will be expelled violently, blood
will boil and skin will bloat and stretch. In short, the
Traveller will have seconds at best to get back to safety.

Temperature Table
Heat

50º (very hot desert)
200º (~Mercury)
500º (~Venus)
Burning Torch
Welding Torch
Inferno

Effect

1D/hour
1D/round
2D/round
1D/round
2D/round
3D/round

Any Traveller exposed to vacuum will suffer a
cumulative 1D damage every round. Thus, the Traveller
will suffer 1D damage in the first round, 2D damage in
the second round, 3D damage in the third and so on.

WEATHER

High winds and torrential rain inflict DM-1 to all skill
checks made in the teeth of the weather, depending
on the intensity of conditions. Unusual weather effects
include flammable methane clouds, rain of sulphuric
acid, mists of poisonous gas, flash floods, and carbon
dioxide glaciers subliming to gas in the heat of the
Traveller’s footsteps...

HEALING

With all the dangers present throughout the galaxy, it is
inevitable that Travellers will get hurt. Fortunately, there
are several options to heal and repair oneself.
There are two forms of healing – medical treatment
and natural healing. Note that failed Medic checks can
easily end up causing the patient more damage – we
recommend you see trained doctors only!

MEDICAL TREATMENT

First Aid: Applying first aid restores a number of
characteristic points equal to the Effect of a Medic
check (EDU), for a minimum of one point. Points
restored by first aid are divided as desired among all
damaged physical characteristics. First aid requires
at least basic medical equipment (such as a medikit),
must be initiated within one minute of the injury and can
only be successfully applied once.
Surgery: A Traveller who still has three damaged
characteristics after first aid has been applied requires
surgery. Surgery restores characteristic points just like
first aid but if the check is failed the patient loses more
characteristic points equal to 3+ the Effect of the Medic
check (EDU). Surgery requires a hospital or sickbay.
Once one characteristic is back to its maximum level
the patient can benefit from medical care.

Cold

-25º (Arctic)
-50º (~Mars)
-200º (~Pluto)
Industrial Freezer
Liquid Nitrogen
—

Effect

1D/hour
2D/hour
1D/round
1D/round
2D/round
—

