Medical Care: A Traveller who has only one or two
damaged characteristics after first aid has been
applied, or who has had one of their three physical
characteristics restored to normal through surgery,
can benefit from medical care. Medical care restores
3+ the Traveller’s END DM + the doctor’s Medic skill
in characteristic points per day, divided evenly among
all damaged characteristics. Medical care requires a
hospital or sickbay and for the Traveller to undergo full
bed rest.
In high technology hospitals, standard procedure in
most cases is to use the Slow Drug (see page 115) to
hasten healing.
For example, Morn is mauled by an alien predator
while exploring a strange moon. He is able to drive
the predator off with his pistol, wounding it. Morn has
suffered damage to all three of his characteristics – he
has lost 10 END, 5 DEX and 3 STR. Kathya applies
first aid, bringing Morn’s STR back up to its maximum
level. With only two characteristics now wounded,
Morn qualifies for medical care and, once in their ship’s
sickbay, is quickly restored to health.
Augmentation and Medical Care: Cybernetic or
genetic augments can interfere with medical treatment.
All medical care or surgery Medic checks treating a
Traveller suffer a negative DM equal to the difference in
Tech Level between the medical facility and the highest
relevant implant. For example, a Traveller with TL13
Enhanced Vision being treated in a TL10 hospital would
inflict DM-3 to the surgeon’s Medic checks.

NATURAL HEALING

An injured Traveller regains a number of characteristic
points equal to 1D + END DM per day of full rest.
A Traveller who requires surgery only regains
characteristic points equal to their END DM per day of
rest, which means that the Traveller may never heal
naturally and will even get worse if their END DM is
currently negative (and it probably will be…).

An unconscious Traveller may make an END
check after every minute. If successful, they regain
consciousness. If they fail, they must wait another
minute before trying again, this time with a cumulative
DM+1 for every previous check failed.

ENCOUNTERS

Throughout their adventures, Travellers will have
the opportunity to meet many strange animals,
aliens, robots and other potential hostiles. When the
referee determines an encounter has occurred, it
will be important for them to know exactly where any
potential hostiles are and when Travellers will become
aware of them.
During encounters, a range band system is used for
convenience, as shown on the Range Band table.

Range Band
Range
Close
Short
Medium
Long
Very Long
Distant
Very Distant

Distance to Target
Up to 5 metres
5–10 metres
11–50 metres
51–250 metres
251–500 metres
501–5,000 metres
Over 5 kilometres

When an encounter occurs, the referee should roll on
the Encounter Distance table to determine when the
Travellers might first become aware of the potential
danger. There are a variety of modifiers given here to
reflect specific situations but the referee should feel free
to further modify the results based on circumstances. For
example, if the Travellers are being tracked by hit men
in a crowded city street, they are unlikely to spot them at
Distant range (over 500 metres). However, this could be
entirely possible if the hit men are not on foot but flying
above the street in an air/raft…

Encounter Distance
2D

2 or less
3
4–5
6–9
10–11
12 or more

Range Band

Close
Short
Medium
Long
Very Long
Distant

Encounters and Dangers

Mental Characteristics: Other than PSI, characters
may also suffer damage to their INT or EDU (the latter
reflecting loss of memory). Unless otherwise specified,
each mental characteristic heals at a rate of one point
each per day.

UNCONSCIOUSNESS

83

