
Clear Terrain

DM+3

Forest or Woods

DM-2

Crowded Area

DM-2

In Space

DM+4

Target is a Vehicle

DM+2 for every 10 tons of
Shipping or part of

Travellers actively
+ highest Recon skill
looking for danger
		
Under normal circumstances, Travellers will
automatically spot the target as an item of interest (at
least) and be able to start taking appropriate action.
However, if the target is attempting to remain hidden,
perhaps get closer before launching an attack or simply
to remain in place to observe passers-by, the Travellers
will need to spot the target before they can take any
action against it.
This is normally accomplished by a simple Recon check
opposed by the target’s Stealth. Use of basic optical
devices by the Travellers or camouflage by the target can
impose modifiers of DM+1 to +3 at the referee’s discretion.
However, in the technological universes of Traveller,
there is always the option to use sophisticated
electronic sensors, some of which are detailed in the
Equipment chapter.

Encounters and dangers

When using any kind of sensor, the Electronics
(sensors) skill is used, opposed by the target’s Stealth.
More advanced uses of sensors and stealth are
detailed in the Vehicle Handbook.

84

Animals are defined by a handful of characteristics as
shown in the example here, a larker – a massive but
gentle insect found on the open grassy plains where it
grazes on long foliage.

Apply the following modifiers:

ANIMALS

Many worlds in the galaxy are capable of bearing
life and across the galaxy evolution (or genetic
engineering) has produced bizarre creatures, forming
complex ecosystems very different from those of the
worlds the Travellers are used to.
Animal

Hits

Speed

Larker

100

9m

Skills

Athletics (endurance) 2, Athletics
(strength) 4, Survival 2

Attacks

Charge (5D)

Traits

Armour (+12), Large (+4)

Behaviour

Herbivore, Grazer

Hits: How much damage the animal can sustain
before it is killed. All damage is applied to Hits, rather
than STR, DEX and END as for Travellers. When an
animal’s Hits are reduced to zero, it is dead.
Speed: How far the animal can move in a single
combat round with a Minor Action.
Skills: Any skills the animal is able to perform are listed
here, together with their DM. Unless otherwise stated,
all animals have Athletics 0 and Survival 0.
Attacks: Any attacks the animal is capable of are listed
here, together with the damage they deal.
Traits: These are special rules the animal has that
determine its abilities beyond Hits, Skills and Attacks.
Some animals are Amphibious, for example, while
others are Very Large.
Behaviour: Animals tend to act in very specific ways
according to their place within an ecosystem and will
aid a referee in determining its actions. An animal’s
behavioural characteristics are detailed further on
page 89.

TRAITS

The following traits may be applied to animals of the
referee’s creation:
Alarm: When panicked or under threat, this animal
emits a powerful screech, odour or makes a bright
visual display, alerting others of its kind to danger. At
the referee’s option, this will either cause all animals of
the same type in the immediate area to flee or will bring
an additional 2D of them into combat.
Amphibious: The animal is equally at home on land or
in the water. It will not suffocate while submerged and
its movement is not affected underwater.
Armour (+X): The animal has dense layers of fat,
horny plates or some other form of physical protection.
It has a Protection score equal to the figure shown in
the Armour trait.

