Bioelectricity (+X): The animal naturally generates
a powerful electric current that is discharged when
it makes an attack. With each successful attack, the
animal will cause an additional amount of damage with
the Stun trait, as listed in its Bioelectricity trait.
Camouflaged: The animal has physical adaptations
that allow it to blend into its environment, such as
chameleonic skin or psionic shielding. It gains DM+2 to
all Stealth checks.
Diseased (Difficulty/Damage/Interval): The animal is
a carrier of disease and will infect any creature it comes
into physical contact with. At the referee’s option,
merely being in the animal’s lair may cause exposure.
The difficulty, damage and interval of the disease is
noted within the Diseased trait.
Echolocation: This animal has organs adapted
to emit high-frequency sounds, which it uses to
pinpoint objects and ‘observe’ its surroundings with
high precision. It can operate in complete darkness,
although two-dimensional details (such as writing on a
page) cannot be made out. Echolocation can operate in
noisy environments but can be completely blocked by
sounds operating at similar high frequencies.
Fast Metabolism (+X): The animal has a heightened
metabolism and very fast reactions. It gains a DM to
Initiative rolls equal to the figure shown in the Fast
Metabolism trait.
Flyer (X): The animal has wings, air sacs or some
other method of gaining altitude and soaring. When
flying, it may travel at a maximum Speed Band listed
in the Flyer trait.

IR/UV Vision: The animal views the world at a greatly
extended electromagnetic range, encompassing at least
infrared or ultraviolet wavelengths and perhaps more.
This allows it to see clearly in darkness and, at the
referee’s option, it may notice certain electromagnetic
emissions from the equipment of Travellers.
Large (+X): The animal is extremely large and presents a
huge target. All ranged attacks made against the animal
gain a DM equal to the score listed in the Large trait.

Psionic (X): The animal has a PSI characteristic equal
to the score listed in the Psionic trait. The referee
should determine which talents it has access to as
shown in the Psionics chapter.
Slow Metabolism (-X): The animal has a lethargic
metabolism and very slow reactions. It suffers a DM
to Initiative rolls equal to the figure shown in the Slow
Metabolism trait.
Small (-X): The animal is very small and presents a
difficult target. All ranged attacks made against the
animal suffer a DM equal to the score listed in the
Small trait.

ANIMAL HITS

The Hits characteristic provides a quick and
easy method for a referee to keep track of
whether an animal is alive or dead. For most
encounters, this will be sufficient but situations
may arise when the players need to have a little
more detail, such as when they are hunting.
Driven Off: At the referee’s option, an animal
may be driven off and forced to retreat if it is
reduced to half of its Hits or less.
Unconscious: If an animal is reduced to
a tenth of its starting Hits or less, it will be
rendered unconscious (and seriously injured!).
Destroyed: If an animal suffers enough damage
to reduce its Hits to a negative equal to or less
than its starting Hits, its body is completely
destroyed and will have little or no value for
harvesting hides, meat or other materials.

Encounters and Dangers

Heightened Senses: The animal has better hearing
and sense of smell than humans. It receives DM+1 to
any Recon and Survival checks it has to make.

Poison (Difficulty/Damage/Interval): The animal’s
attacks are poisoned, making them much deadlier. The
difficulty, damage and interval of the poison is noted
within the Poison trait.

85

