professional has two or three levels in skills related to
their occupation and zero or one levels in a half-dozen
other skills.
There are five types of character who are likely to show
up throughout a typical campaign; Allies, Contacts,
Rivals, Enemies and Patrons.
Allies: These people are willing to go out of their way
to help the Travellers. An Ally is willing to risk their
reputation, status and even life for their friends but
will expect equal consideration from the Travellers.
Allies are actively looking to further the careers of the
Travellers, passing on useful information and rumours.
In general, Travellers can call on an Ally’s aid once per
year without penalty but expecting more will stress the
Ally’s resources. The Ally will still give help if asked but
this may result in the Ally losing position or influence.
Erik’s Ally is his old Naval commander, Jan Halos,
who mustered out of the Navy around the same time
as Erik. Halos is now a wandering free trader with his
own starship. In the past, Halos has flown in to rescue
Erik’s ship from attack and aided Erik in a dangerous
smuggling mission. If Erik asked, Halos would risk
anything for him.
Contacts: These people are willing to help the
Traveller when they can but only in a limited fashion.
An Ally would give the Travellers a weapon but a
Contact would only tell the Travellers where they could
purchase it.

Rivals and Enemies: These are both adversaries of
the Travellers – Enemies are just willing to go further.
While adventures can revolve around the efforts of
a Rival to discredit or kill the Travellers, the referee
should also drop Rivals and Enemies into other plots.
For example, if the Travellers are trying to find a
starport willing to repair their damaged ship, a Rival
might show up in the system and poach passengers.
Enemies, and especially Rivals, should be mobile. If
the Travellers are going to spend their time jumping
from system-to-system, then their Rivals should have
starships of their own so the Travellers encounter


Erik’s Rival is Manfred Greel, a notorious corsair and
thief. Greel has a grudge against Erik and takes great
pleasure in tormenting or sabotaging anything Erik
does. Greel has come to enjoy their little contests,
however, and greatly prefers to humiliate and provoke
Erik instead of trying to kill him.
Patrons: These people supply the Travellers with work
and adventure, and are covered in greater detail later in
this chapter.

COMMUNICATIONS

Remember, there is no faster-than-light
communication in the Third Imperium. Allies
and Contacts can only be contacted when the
Travellers are in the same system and there will
be a delay in communications traffic of several
seconds or even minutes if the Travellers are on
different planets within that system.

QUICK CHARACTERS

If a referee needs to quickly create a Contact, Ally,
Rival or Enemy, or if a Traveller needs inspiration to
create one, you can roll on the Allies and Enemies
table. If desired, also roll on the Character Quirks table
to give the character an added dimension.

Encounters and Dangers

Erik’s Contact is Tarel Paragi, a diplomat. Tarel will
pass on useful information to Erik, in exchange for
other rumours and bits of data. Tarel will advise Erik
when dealing with the Imperial bureaucracy but will not
endanger himself. Theirs is an alliance of convenience
as far as the diplomat is concerned.

them again and again. Enemies can be stationary
but should have a long enough reach to affect the
Travellers. Totalitarian governments, evil conspiracies
or interstellar corporations all make great Enemies.

91

