EQUIPMENT

The vast number of tools and devices in the universe
and the variation in potential costs and values defy
classification; it is impossible to note and define
them all. The objects in this chapter are presented as
indications of common qualities and values. Different
worlds use different manufacturing techniques, design
styles and even physical principles to achieve the
same effect. A pistol on one world might resemble a
conventional firearm; on another, the same type of gun
might be elaborately decorated and coloured to reflect
its importance in that world’s martial culture; elsewhere,
it might be heavily integrated with computers to aid
targeting, use bullets formed from ice mixed with
plastic polymers or be constructed from sensor-baffling
materials and treated woods to avoid detection by
security sensors.
Each item is listed with the Tech Level needed to
manufacture it, its mass (in kg) and its cost. If an item’s
weight or cost is not listed, then its weight or cost is
negligible. In this case, you can assume that 10 such
items would mass one kg or cost Cr1 respectively.
You should note that items are available for several
Tech Levels after they first appear but it is often quite
hard to find a low-tech item on a high-tech world (few
TL13 spacefaring civilisations are going to produce a
lot of crossbows or backpack radios).

CREDITS

The Credit (Cr) is the standard unit of currency in
Traveller. Larger denominations include the KiloCredit
(KCr1 or Cr1000) and the MegaCredit (MCr1 or
Cr1000000). It is assumed that the physical Credit is
minted by the dominant empire of the universe and is
virtually impossible to falsify.
In other settings, other currencies may be used. In
2300AD, for example, the base currency is the Livre,
or Lv. However, that actual value of the Livre or any
other currency used in any other universe is assumed
to be identical to that of a Credit so you will be able to
make direct comparisons (and purchases) between the
two. For example, Tech Level 10 Combat Armour costs
Cr96000 in Traveller. In 2300AD, it would cost Lv96000.


SELLING EQUIPMENT

Travellers are likely to accumulate equipment
they cannot use, either taken from defeated
enemies or replaced by more advanced items. In
these cases, they will want to sell equipment for
ready cash.
For a quick and simple measure, a referee can
presume a Traveller can sell an undamaged
item for half its purchase price. There may be
times when the referee will want to impose limits
on this, perhaps when a Traveller tries to sell a
highly advanced technological device on a world
with a low Tech Level that has no means of
generating electricity, for example.

SPENDING CREDITS

Citizens of high-technology (TL8 or higher) planets
often use electronic Credits. Transactions are
authenticated and managed using computers or
personal comms. While electronic Credits work
perfectly well in-system, lack of faster than light
communications in some universes means it is
possible for a Traveller to outrun their Credits – having
a million Credits in one’s bank account on Sylea is
all well and good but if you are 20 parsecs away
and the data has not caught up with you, then it is
inaccessible. Large banks, corporations and other
financial institutions use x-boat networks or similar
facilities to synchronise important financial records
but private citizens must make arrangements to keep
Credits available.
It is possible to notify one’s bank and have a line of
Credit sent ahead (or at least sent at the same time)
if you know your destination but wandering Travellers
must sometimes default to using physical cash or trade
goods. In addition to physical Credits, precious metals,
gemstones, radioactive elements or technological
wonders are sometimes used in barter on many worlds.

97

