

Hostile Environment Vacc Suit: Hostile
Ablat: A cheap alternative to reflec, ablat armour

environment suits are designed for conditions where
a normal vacc suit would be insufficient, such as
deep underwater, worlds with toxic atmosphere,
extremes of radiation or temperature. HEV suits
provide life support for six hours.

Battle Dress: The premier personal armour, battle

Jack: A natural or synthetic leather jacket or body

is made from a material that ablates (vaporises)
when hit by laser fire. Each laser hit on ablat armour
reduces its Protection value against lasers by one but
the armour is cheap and easily replaceable.

dress is a powered form of combat armour but much
tougher. The servomotors vastly increase the user’s
speed and strength, increasing STR and DEX by +4
while wearing the armour. Damage to the wearer’s
characteristics is calculated as normal but the bonus
values from the armour are used for all other purposes
such as melee damage or skill checks. An on-board
Computer/2 gives tactical advice and updates, and the
suit is commonly outfitted with numerous upgrades.
The suit is fully enclosed, with a six-hour air supply
and gives substantial protection against NBC (nuclear/
biological/chemical) hazards. All weapons used while
wearing battle dress count as having the Scope trait.
TL14: This more advanced battle dress is
considerably stronger, granting STR +6 and upgrades
the internal systems to Computer/3.

equipment

Cloth: A heavy duty body suit tailored from ballistic

Mesh: A jacket or body suit lined with a flexible metal or
plastic mesh that gives it added protection against bullets.
Reflec: Reflec armour is a flexible plastic suit with

layers of reflective material and heat-dispersing
gel. It is highly effective against lasers but provides
no protection against other attacks. Reflec can be
worn with other armour but is hard to obtain, quite
expensive and imposes DM-2 on any Stealth checks
the wearer attempts.

Vacc Suit: The vacc suit or space suit is the spacer’s

cloth. The fabric absorbs impact energy and spreads
it over the body, which can result in bruising.
However, cloth armour is highly useful and versatile.

best friend, providing life support and protection when in
space. Early vacc suits are unwieldy and uncomfortable
but quickly shrink as technology advances. A vacc suit
provides life support for six hours.

TL10: This armour is lighter and more flexible, and
can be indistinguishable from ordinary clothing under
normal circumstances.

TL10: An improved version that masses a lot less.
TL12: At this Tech Level, ‘tailored’ vacc suits feel like
ordinary clothing with a flexible hood and face mask.

Combat Armour: This full-body suit is used by the
military and not generally available on the open
market, although those with military or criminal
contacts can obtain suits. It is issued to troop units
and mercenary battalions. Combat armour can
function as a vacc suit and provides life support for
six hours. All weapons used while wearing combat
armour count as having the Scope trait.

ARMOUR OPTIONS

TL12: Considerably lighter, substituting carbon-tube
weave for the smart plastic of the previous generation.
TL14: Offers vastly improved protection.

Flak Jacket: A less expensive version of ballistic
cloth, the bulky flak jacket is an unmistakably
military garment.

102

suit covering the torso and upper arms and legs. Jack
is better than ordinary clothing or bare skin when
defending against blades but is useless against guns.

Chameleon, IR (TL 12): This technology can be added

to any full-body suit. It selectively bleeds heat to match
background infrared levels and effectively renders the
wearer invisible to infrared detection (DM-4 to detect
with sensors). IR chameleon costs Cr5000.

Chameleon, Vislight (TL13): A more advanced form of

IR chameleon, vislight chameleon layers the surface of
the armour with light-bending technology, making the
wearer nearly invisible to the naked eye (DM-4 to spot).
Vislight chameleon costs Cr50000.

