INTERFACES AND INTELLECTS

Choosing the right program to use on your computer
is important and depends on what you are trying to do
with the computer:
•
•

If you are just using the computer for general tasks,
then all you need is a basic Interface/0.
If you are using the computer to access an Expert
program, then you need Intelligent Interface to get
the benefit. If you want the computer to do the work
for you, then you need to run an Intellect program.

COMPUTER VARIANTS

A computer’s optimum Tech Level is the level at
which it reaches standard production and is no longer
considered a prototype or experiment. Most computing
systems will be built at the optimal level or higher, to
allow utilisation of higher TL programs. Computers may
be built at lower than optimum Tech Levels (Prototech)
or reduced Tech Levels (Retrotech).
Prototech: A computer type may be produced at up
to 2 levels below its optimum TL as a prototype (or
reverse engineered experiment) or as a substandard
but cheaper model. The system has its Processing and
TL at normal values but cost and mass are multiplied
by 10 for construction at one TL lower and 100 for
construction at two TL lower.
For example, a TL10 Computer/2 salvaged from a
mysterious alien wreck could be used to reverse engineer
a Computer/2 by a TL8 society. It would run as a TL10
Computer/2, but would cost Cr50000 and mass 50kg.
RetroTech: While computers may be built at, and rated
as, any TL above the optimum TL, a higher TL society
may produce a lower rated TL system for reduced cost
and mass. Any system may be built at any TL below
the society’s current level but not below the optimum TL
for the model. Each reduced level halves the cost and
mass of the basic model.

Having a tool or weapon with the appropriate Expert
program and an Intelligent Interface can grant a Traveller
DM+1 to relevant checks. However, the program can
only help if the difficulty of the task is less than a certain
value. In combat, add up any negative DMs to determine
the effective difficulty of the attack or action.


equipment

EXPERT SKILLS

113

