

Most of these supplies require a Traveller with the
Medic skill to use properly. These items are, in the
main, useful only in emergencies, such as when a
Traveller is injured on a distant planet far away from a
hospital facility.
Healing: An injured Traveller who needs hospital care
for a prolonged period will pay approximately Cr250
per month per Tech Level (at TL11+ doctors may just
use Medicinal Slow in many cases). Surgery costs 1D x
Cr50 x Tech Level.
Replacements: A Traveller whose injuries require
cloning limbs or cybernetic replacement must pay
Cr5000 per characteristic point lost.

Medikit

medical &
care supplies

equipment

THE CORE COLLECTION

114

Cryoberth (TL10): A cryoberth, or ‘icebox’, is a
coffin-like machine similar to the low or frozen berths
used on some spacecraft. The main difference is
that a cryoberth works much faster than a low berth,
freezing and preserving its occupant almost instantly.
A cryoberth can therefore be used to place a severely
injured Traveller into stasis until they receive medical
treatment. A cryoberth’s internal power system can
function for up to one week on its own but a berth
is usually connected to a vehicle’s or ship’s power
supply. Costs Cr50000 with a mass of 200kg.

Medikit (TL8+): There are different types of medikit
available at different Tech Levels. All medikits
contain diagnostic devices and scanners, surgical
tools and a panoply of drugs and antibiotics,
allowing a medic to practise their art in the field.
Advanced medikits can help with more exotic
problems or when treating augmented individuals.
For example, a TL8 medikit can test blood pressure
and temperature, while a TL14 kit has a medical
densitometer to create a three-dimensional view
of the patient’s body and can scan brain activity on
the quantum level. All medikits mass 1kg, except at
TL14 where they have an effective mass of 0kg.
TL8: Costs Cr1000.
TL10: Grants DM+1 on Medic checks performed for
first aid. Costs Cr1500.
TL12: Grants DM+2 on Medic checks performed for
first aid. Costs Cr5000.
TL14: Grants DM+3 on Medic checks performed for
first aid. Costs Cr10000.

