DRUGS

There are several drugs (or ‘meds’) in standard use.

Anagathics (TL15): These slow the user’s ageing

process. Synthetic anagathics become possible at
TL15 but there are natural spices and other rare
compounds that have comparable effects. Anagathics
are illegal or heavily controlled on many worlds. One
dose must be taken each month to maintain the antiaging effect. They cost Cr20000 per dose.

Anti-rad (TL8): Anti-rad drugs must be administered
before or immediately (within 10 minutes) after
radiation exposure. They absorb up to 100 rads per
dose. A Traveller may only use anti-rad drugs once
per day – taking any more causes permanent END
damage of 1D per dose. Costs Cr1000 per dose.
Combat Drugs (TL10): Combat drugs increase

reaction times and improve a body’s responses to
trauma. A Traveller using combat drugs gains DM+4
to all Initiative rolls. They also gain a free Reaction
every round with no penalty applied and reduces all
damage sustained by -2 points. The drug kicks in
around 20 seconds (three rounds) after ingestion or
injection and lasts for around 10 minutes. When the
drug wears off, the user is Fatigued (see page 80).
Combat drugs cost Cr1000 per dose.

Fast Drug (TL10): Also called Hibernation, this

drug puts the user into a state akin to suspended
animation, slowing their metabolic rate down to a
ratio of 60:1 – a subjective day for the user is actually
two months. Fast drug is normally used to prolong
life support reserves or as a cheap substitute for a
cryoberth. Fast drug costs Cr200 per dose.

user’s reaction time to superhuman levels. To the user,
everyone else appears to be moving much slower.
A Traveller using a metabolic accelerator in combat
gains DM+8 to all Initiative rolls. They also gain two
free Reactions every round with no penalties applied
for either. The drug kicks in 45 seconds after ingestion
or injection and lasts for around 10 minutes. When the
drug wears off, the user’s system crashes. They suffer
2D points of damage and is Fatigued (see page 80).
Metabolic accelerator costs Cr500 per dose.

Panaceas (TL8+): These are wide-spectrum
medicinal drugs specifically designed not to interact
harmfully. They can therefore be used on any wound
or illness and are guaranteed not to make things
worse. A Traveller using panaceas may make a
Medic check as if they had Medic 0 when treating an
infection or disease. Panaceas cost Cr200 per dose.
Slow Drug (TL11): This is a variant of the metabolic
accelerator. It can only be applied safely in a medical
facility where life-support and cryotechnology is
available, as it increases the metabolism to around 30
times normal, allowing a patient to undergo a month
of healing in a single day. Using this drug outside
of a hospital or sickbay is a messy and painful way
to commit suicide, as the user will rapidly cook their
internal organs and suffer massive brain damage.
Slow drug costs Cr500 per dose.
Stims (TL8): These relieve fatigue, although at a

cost. A Traveller who uses stims removes Fatigue
(see page 80) but also sustains one point of damage.
If stims are used repeatedly without natural sleep
in between, the user suffers a cumulative additional
point of damage every time (so, on the second use,
two points of damage are sustained, on the third,
three points and so on). Costs Cr50 per dose.

equipment

Medicinal Drugs (TL5+): Includes vaccines,
antitoxins and antibiotics. They range in cost from Cr5
to several thousand Credits, depending on the rarity
and complexity. Medicinal drugs require the Medic
skill to use properly – using the wrong drug can be
worse than doing nothing.

Metabolic Accelerator (TL10): These boost the

115

