Artificial Gill: Extracts oxygen from water allowing
the wearer to breathe underwater. Only works on worlds
with breathable atmospheres (Atmosphere 4–9).

Habitat Module: A modular unpressurised quarters

Breather Mask: Combines filter and respirator into a
single package.
TL10: The more advanced filter is small enough to fit
into the nose or can even be a lung implant.

for six people, capable of withstanding anything less
than hurricane-force winds. Includes survival rations
and battery power to last a week. Requires 12 manhours to assemble and can be attached to other
modules to form a base.
TL10: The TL10 module is pressurised and includes
life-support for six occupants for one week (1,000
person/hours).

Climbing Kit: A set of accessories designed to make

Portable Fusion Generator: This is a light-duty

climbing easier. Includes a safety harness, gloves
and rock shoes, belt with secure holders for tools and
head protection. The kit provides DM+1 to attempts to
climb rock surfaces.
TL8: The kit includes a lightweight harness suitable
for abseiling or rappelling, expanding mini-pitons for
small rock crevices and more advanced versions of
the accessories in the basic kit, providing DM+2 to
attempts to climb rock surfaces.

Environment Suit: Designed to protect the wearer

from extreme cold or heat, the environment suit has a
hood, gloves and boots but leaves the face exposed
in normal operations. A mask or rebreather can be
attached but truly hostile situations call for the heavyduty hostile environment vacc suit.

Filter Mask: Filters are breathing masks that strip

out harmful elements from the air inhaled by the
Traveller, such as dangerous gases or dust particles.

Grav Belt: A harness worn across the body, the

Radiation Suit: A radiation suit protects the Traveller
against direct radiation, such as solar flares or a
reactor breach. A vacc suit will offer some protection
but for areas of hard radiation a dedicated radiation
suit is required, reducing exposure by 100 rads.
Rescue Bubble: A large (two metre diameter)

plastic bubble. Piezoelectric layers in the bubble wall
translate the user’s movements into electricity to
recharge the bubble’s batteries and power its distress
beacon and a small oxygen tank both inflates the
bubble and provides two person/hours of life support.
A self-repairing plastic seal serves as an emergency
airlock. Rescue bubbles are found on both space and
sea vessels as emergency lifeboats.

Respirator: This rebreather concentrates inhaled

oxygen, allowing a Traveller to breathe on worlds with
a thin atmosphere. Respirators take the form of a
face mask or mouthpiece initially.
TL10: The more advanced respirator is small enough
to fit into the nose or can even be a lung implant.

Tent: A basic tent provides shelter for two people

against the weather.
TL7: The TL7 version can be pressurised. There is no
airlock – the tent is depressurised when opened.

equipment

grav belt is equipped with artificial gravity modules,
allowing the Traveller to fly. The internal battery can
be operated for a maximum of four hours before
recharging. At TL15, the battery can operate for 12
hours before recharging. The grav belt allows the
wearer to fly at Medium speed.

portable fusion generator, capable of recharging
weapons and other equipment for up to one month
of use.

119

