Archaeology
Toolkit

Cybernetics
Toolkit

Planetology
Toolkit

SCIENTIFIC TOOLKITS

A scientific toolkit is a set of instruments and dedicated
expert computer packaged to help a professional
perform specific science-related tasks. The combination
of tools and expert computer provides DM+2 to Science
checks related to the toolkit’s science-related speciality.
Toolkit instruments are specific to a speciality or related
specialties of scientific endeavours. The tools alone will
provide DM+1 to checks related to their specialities for
Travellers who have at least Science 0 but will not aid
an unskilled individual. Toolkit computers are tablets
running Intellect and Expert software in the specified
speciality. On their own they provide DM+1 to checks
related to their specialities for Travellers who have at
least Science 0 or allow unskilled Travellers to attempt
Difficult (10+) or easier checks associated with the
science speciality without an unskilled penalty.

Archaeology Science Toolkit: The archaeology
toolkit provides tools for recovering and understanding
the relics of past civilisations using the Science
(archaeology) skill. The kit does not contain large-scale
excavating tools but includes deployable sensors for
locating and observing buried objects, including small
radar and lidar sensors, remote camera controllers
and small observation drones. The toolkit’s computing
resources contain extensive databases of known relics
and their context and a library of published papers. In
addition, the archaeology toolkits will provide DM+1 to
Science (history) checks related to archaeological finds.
Cybernetics Science Toolkit: This provides

Life Sciences Toolkit: The life science toolkit

Life Sciences Toolkit

contains tools to aid the performance of tasks with the
Science specialities of biology, genetics and xenology.
It contains biological sampling equipment, optical and
electron microscopes, chemical analysis equipment
and sequencers for DNA, proteins and other common
life-related molecules. In addition, the toolkit can also
aid in medical diagnosis, providing a DM+1 to Medic or
Investigate checks to diagnose a medical condition.

equipment

instruments to analyse, troubleshoot and repair
cybernetic components using the Science (cybernetics)
skill. These tools do not include equipment to construct
new cybernetic components but do allow for the
installation or reattachment of cybernetic components on
a living being. The cybernetic toolkit also provides DM+1
to Medic checks involving the intersection of biological
and cybernetic components. The toolkit also provides
DM+1 to Electronics (computers) or Profession (robotics)
checks to repair cybernetic components.

Robotics Science
Toolkit

121

