
Planetology Science Toolkit: This is a set of

instruments intended to analyse the characteristics of a
planetary environment using the Science (planetology)
skill, applicable to the study of planets, asteroids,
comets or other natural non-stellar bodies within a solar
system. It contains atmospheric samplers, chemical
analysis equipment focused on element and mineral
composition of surface samples, ground monitoring
sensors to sense seismic activity and analytics and
display tools that provide a workup of atmosphere
and surface composition, climatic conditions and
rough internal planetary structure. Additionally, the
planetology toolkit provides DM+1 to tasks related
to the environment of solar system bodies using the
Science specialities of astronomy, chemistry or physics,
and DM+1 to tasks related to the environmental
conditions of lifeforms using the Science specialities of
biology, genetics or xenology.

Psionicology Science Toolkit: Since the

equipment

psionicology toolkit is focused on the understanding of
psionic talent using the Science (psionicology) skill, it is
generally considered contraband on worlds that prohibit
the use of psionics. On those worlds, toolkits might be
in the hands of government operatives but outside the
confines of law enforcement or government-sanctioned
research mere possession could be a crime. The
toolkit includes testing equipment to determine the
latent PSI potential of an individual, including tests for
PSI strength and understanding talents, which can be
trained. The toolkit provides feedback analytics for both
psionic training and diagnosis of psionic-related mental
conditions or psionic blocks and includes a dose of
inhibitor drug to temporarily limit psionic ability.

Robotics Science Toolkit: For use with the Science
(robotics) skill, this toolkit includes the tools to
diagnose, repair and construct robotic components. It
is not intended to allow for the construction of a robot
but may aid in repair and enhancement. It includes
debugging software for robotic brains, electronics
tools to repair or create connections between robotic
components and delicate mechanical tools to repair
or assemble a robot. This toolkit also provides DM+1
to robotic related tasks performed using Electronics
(computers) or Profession (robotics).
Space Sciences Toolkit: The space sciences
toolkit contains sensors and analytic tools valuable
to performance of the Science skill specialities
of astronomy and cosmology. It does not contain
telescopes or other large sensors but does have
equipment such as spectroscopic analysers and

122

