Accelerator Rifle: Also known as gyrojet weapons,
accelerator rifles are designed for zero-gravity
combat. They fire tiny missiles that leave the rifle
with minimal velocity and thus minimal recoil, then
accelerate to high speed.

Advanced Combat Rifle: The ultimate evolution

of the conventional firearm, advanced combat
rifles are the weapon of choice for many military
units. Standard equipment includes an electronic
battlefield sight, incorporating both light amplification
and passive IR, visual magnification and a laser
rangefinder, which may also be used as a target
painting device. The weapon is also gyroscopically
stabilised during firing. A sling is provided and
the muzzle of the rifle includes an integral flash
suppressor and adaptor for launching a 40mm RAM
shoot-through grenade.

Antique Pistol: A flintlock or other primitive projectile
weapon. Unless the weapon is especially well made,
it will have DM-1 to all attacks. Antique pistols require
a successful Gun Combat (slug) check to reload,
taking 2D3 Minor Actions.
Antique Rifle: A musket or other primitive rifle.

Gauss Rifle: Gauss rifles replace conventional rifles

at TL13. Like the smaller gauss pistol, rifles fire highvelocity projectiles using electromagnetic rails.

Revolver: A conventional six-shooter handgun.
Rifle: A long-range hunting rifle or light infantry weapon.
Shotgun: Shotguns are smoothbore weapons that
typically fire ammunition containing multiple small
pellets. They are most effective at short range. A
shotgun using pellet ammunition ignores Dodge dice
modifiers but armour gives double Protection against
pellet attacks.
Snub Pistol: These lightweight, low-recoil weapons
were designed for use aboard spacecraft and in
zero gravity.

Submachine Gun: A short weapon capable of

automatic fire, it puts the power of an assault rifle into
a small package. However, it lacks a rifle’s accuracy
at range.

Unless the weapon is especially well made, it will
have DM-1 to all attacks. Antique rifles require a
successful Gun Combat (slug) check to reload, taking
2D3 Minor Actions.

Autopistol: Variants of this semi-automatic pistol is
the standard sidearm for law enforcement officers
and criminals across the Imperium.

Autorifle: Automatic rifles have a higher muzzle
velocity and are capable of automatic fire. Sometimes
called battle rifles.
plastics and cultured bone, making them very difficult
to detect using conventional weapons scanners. Body
pistols impose DM-4 to any Electronics (sensors)
checks made to detect them.

Advanced
Combat Rifle

equipment

Body Pistol: Body pistols are manufactured from

Accelerator Rifle

Gauss Pistol: Gauss pistols use electromagnetic
coils to accelerate metallic darts to hypersonic speeds.
Gauss weapons are lightweight, efficient and deadly.


127

