
CRUISING SPEED

The Speed of vehicles in Traveller shows the maximum
rate at which the vehicle can normally travel. The
Range will show the distance they can travel while at
this maximum speed.
However, most vehicles will rarely travel at their
maximum speed and will instead cruise to maintain a
better balance of speed and endurance. The cruising
speed of any vehicle is assumed to be one Speed
Band lower than the vehicle’s maximum speed and
if it maintains this rate of movement, its Range will
increase by 50%.

COMBAT

Combat in and on vehicles is much the same as
ordinary combat, although there are some differences.
•

•

Unlike people, who are mobile and manoeuvrable,
careful track must be kept of which way a vehicle is
facing. Vehicle-mounted weapons and to a lesser
extent armed passengers, are restricted to certain
fire arcs.
Vehicles are considered to move on the driver’s
Initiative. The driver must spend a Minor Action
every round to keep control of the vehicle under
normal circumstances – a straight road or simple
manoeuvres – or a Significant Action to navigate
obstacles, conduct evasion or pursue a target.

CLOSED VEHICLES

Closed vehicles include typical cars, g/carriers, tanks
and other vehicles with crew and passengers within a
protective enclosed hull. All vehicles are assumed to be
closed unless otherwise stated.

vehicles

•

138

•
•

Closed vehicles grant cover to any visible
occupants, with a bonus equal to the Armour of the
vehicle in the facing from which the attack originates.
Any occupants not visible cannot be directly
attacked at all.
Only a few people in a closed vehicle can shoot
out, depending on the number of windows or other
firing ports and the internal space available. Unless
the description mentions otherwise up to two
people can fire into each arc from a civilian vehicle
and one person in each arc in a military one.

OPEN VEHICLES

Open vehicles include motorbikes, air/rafts and other
vehicles where the occupants are exposed. If a vehicle
is open, this will be stated in its description under
Equipment & Traits.
•
•

Open vehicles grant no cover to the passengers.
Any passenger in an open vehicle can shoot (or
otherwise attack) in any direction.

VEHICULAR ACTIONS

These are all significant actions that the driver (or pilot)
of a vehicle can perform during their turn in a combat
round. All skill checks used in these actions use the
Agility of the vehicle as a DM.
Dogfight: A vehicle within one kilometre and within one
Speed Band of another may initiate a dogfight. This is a
series of manoeuvres whereby the driver of one vehicle
attempts to gain a position of advantage over another
and, hopefully, destroy it.
The drivers of both vehicles make opposed skill checks
using the skill appropriate to their vehicle (Drive, Flyer,
or Seafarer), modified by their vehicle’s Agility as
normal. For every additional enemy engaging in the
dogfight, DM-1 is applied.
A draw means that neither vehicle may attack the other
unless it possesses a weapon in a turret. The winner
may choose to place their opponent’s vehicle in a
fire arc of their choice and may choose which of the
opposing vehicle’s fire arcs their own vehicle lies in.
In this way, the winner of a dogfight can ensure all
their forward facing weapons can attack their enemy
while ensuring they stay out of their opponent’s forward
facing (and the weapons present there). In addition, the
winner of a dogfight gains DM+2 to all their attack rolls
for this round while the loser suffers DM-2.
If one of the vehicles’ drivers chooses to initiate a
dogfight again in the following combat round, the
winner of the previous dogfight applies the difference
between that round’s opposed check as a positive DM
to this round’s opposed check.
Evasive Action: The driver may declare they are
taking evasive action when their turn arrives. They
make a skill check (the skill being determined by the
type of vehicle and do not forget to apply the vehicle’s
Agility!) and the Effect acts as a negative DM to all
attacks against the vehicle or its passengers. The
Effect also acts as a negative DM to any attacks made

