

Critical Hits Location

DAMAGING VEHICLES

Once the total amount of damage a weapon is causing
has been calculated, any armour the vehicle has is
deducted from it. Some vehicles have different armour
scores on different facings – the armour used against
a weapon is always the facing the attack is made from.
Basically, if an attack is made to the side of a vehicle,
the vehicle will use its side armour against the attack.
The remaining damage is the total that is removed
from the vehicle’s Hull. Once a vehicle has been
reduced to zero Hull, it is wrecked and becomes
totally inoperable and is normally beyond any repair
although parts may be salvaged.

VEHICLE ARMOUR

Even on dedicated military vehicles, the roof and
floor tend to be weak points in their structure that a
canny enemy can exploit. Unless otherwise stated,
all vehicles will use half the value of their side armour
against attacks on the roof and half the value of their
rear armour against attacks on the floor.

LIGHT WEAPONS

Most weapons carried by Travellers, such as pistols,
rifles and lasers, are not well-suited to destroying
vehicles and their effects are greatly weakened.
Against any weapon that has less than Damage 4D or
has the Stun trait, a vehicle will have an extra amount
of armour equal to its TL on each facing.

LARGE VEHICLES

vehicles

Vehicles, by their nature, tend to be large machines and
are much easier to hit than a ducking Traveller. Attack
rolls against vehicles gain DM+1, plus an additional
DM+1 for every full 10 tons of their Shipping score (to a
maximum of DM+6).

CRITICAL HITS

If an attack roll against a vehicle has an Effect of 6 or
higher and it causes damage (rather than just bouncing
off armour), a critical hit has been scored – some vital
system has been damaged by the attack, reducing the
effectiveness of the vehicle.
If a critical hit has been inflicted upon a vehicle, roll 2D and
then consult the Critical Hits Location table. If a particular
location does not apply to this vehicle, roll again.
The Severity of the critical hit is equal to the Effect of
the attack roll minus 5. Consult the Critical Hit Effects
table to determine the nature of the critical hit and how

140

2D

2–3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11–12

Location

Fuel
Power Plant
Weapon
Armour
Hull
Cargo
Occupants
Drive System
Systems

it affects the vehicle. Any extra damage caused by the
effects of critical hits ignores the vehicle’s Armour.
If a vehicle has already sustained a critical hit to a location
that receives another, use the Severity of the new critical
hit or the original plus one, whichever is higher and
immediately apply any new effects. Once a location has
reached Severity 6, it cannot suffer any more critical hits.
Instead, the vehicle will receive 6D extra damage every
time the location suffers another critical hit.

Sustained Damage

A vehicle will also have its components degraded
through sustaining constant damage. Every time a
vehicle sustains damage equalling 10% of its starting
Hull score, roll 2D and then consult the Critical Hits
Location table. The vehicle will suffer a Severity 1
critical hit to that location.

