
AIRLOCKS

A ship has at least one airlock per 500 tons. The
average airlock is large enough for three people in vacc
suits to pass through. An airlock takes 10 seconds to
cycle. Under normal circumstances, airlocks are locked
down from the bridge and require a Very Difficult (12+)
Electronics (computers) check to override from either
the interior or exterior of the ship. An unlocked airlock
can be triggered from outside. Airlocks generally have
vacc suits (see page 102), rescue bubbles (see page
119) and cutlasses (see page 125) in lockers nearby.
Ships with cargo space have cargo hatches, which can
effectively be used as an ad hoc airlock if needed.

ATMOSPHERIC OPERATIONS

A streamlined ship is designed to enter a planetary
atmosphere and can function like a conventional
aircraft. Pilot checks are required in high winds and
other extreme weather.
Partial streamlining allows a ship to skim gas giants
and enter Atmosphere codes of 3 or less, acting in the
same way as streamlined ships. In other atmospheres,
the ship will be ponderous and unresponsive, reliant
on its thrusters to keep it aloft. All Pilot checks will be
made with DM-2.

spacecraft operations

An unstreamlined ship is completely non-aerodynamic
and if it enters an atmosphere it runs the risk of
sustaining serious damage. Such a ship must make a
Pilot check at DM-4 when it enters an atmosphere and
for every minute of flight. Each failed check inflicts 1D
damage to the ship, ignoring any Armour.

152

DOCKING AND LANDING

These two procedures are routine and performed
whenever a ship travels between systems, so ship
captains should be very familiar with their operation.
Note the rules for atmospheric operation will apply
whenever a ship lands on a planet with an atmosphere.

LANDING

Landing at a starport requires a Routine (6+) Pilot check
(1D x 10 seconds) but most pilots will take 1D minutes to
perform a landing and gain DM+2 on the task.
Ships have landing gear, allowing them to touch down
‘in the wild’, which requires an Average (8+), Difficult
(10+) or even Very Difficult (12+) Pilot check, depending

on local terrain. They can also land on bodies of water.
Failing a Pilot check while attempting a landing means
the ship has landed improperly or even crashed.

DOCKING

Two spacecraft may dock if they are close together and
neither ship attempts to resist the docking manoeuvre.
Many airlock designs across charted space are
compatible; for incompatible airlocks, ships extend
flexible plastic docking tubes that adapt to the target
airlock. Docking with another vessel requires a Routine
(6+) Pilot check (1D minutes).

BOARDING

Hostile ships may be docked with and boarded,
although this is a very dangerous operation at all
stages. Boarding attempts are detailed on page 175.

POWER

Every spacecraft has a power plant that produces
an amount of Power, as listed in its description in
the Common Spacecraft chapter. Under normal
circumstances, most ships will produce enough Power
to run all systems and weapons without any attention
needed from the crew. However, some ships may be
built underpowered, usually to fulfil specific budgetary
or design criteria. Other ships may run into power
problems if they receive damage to their power plant
(see Critical Hits on page 168).
A ship needs the following Power points available for
each of these listed systems. The spacecraft in the
Common Spacecraft chapter have a summary of these
systems, which will greatly speed play if Power starts
getting low.
Basic Ship Systems: This includes everything a ship
needs for day-to-day operations, including artificial
gravity, heating, lighting and life support. The amount of
Power needed for basic ship systems is equal to 20%
of the total tonnage of the hull.
Manoeuvre Drive: In order to use the manoeuvre
drive, the ship requires an amount of Power equal to
10% of the hull’s total tonnage multiplied by the ship’s
maximum Thrust.
Jump Drive: In order to use the jump drive, the ship
requires an amount of Power equal to 10% of the hull’s
total tonnage multiplied by the ship’s maximum jump
range. Note that this Power requirement is only needed
when the ship actually initiates a jump – at all other
times, the jump drive remains inert.

