
The encounter distance depends on the results of
an Electronics (sensors) check. Civilian vessels
and military craft not on manoeuvres broadcast a
continuous IFF beacon, which gives DM+4 to detection
attempts. See Sensors on page 160.
Collisions, signals and solar flares are exempt from
encounter distance rules.
Collision!: Almost any collision at high speed is lethal
even for the most powerful spacecraft. In this case, the
ship has collided with a tiny object that has nevertheless
smashed into the hull. The ship suffers 1D damage.
Distress Signals: Ships transmit the standard timestamped SOS message (also known as Mayday
in Solomani or Signal GK in Vilani within the Third
Imperium setting) when in distress. Any vessel who
detects an SOS is legally required to respond and
offer assistance or contact the authorities. Failure to
render assistance is a criminal offence but the harsh
requirements of life support and orbital mechanics mean
that many deaths in space are slow ones, where a crew
know they are doomed but have days or weeks in which
to contemplate it. Many ships carry low berths where the
crew can freeze themselves and wait for rescue.
Some distress calls are fakes, intended to draw ships in
so they can be attacked.

spacecraft operations

Police Vessel: This result may also indicate a military
vessel or government ship. A police vessel will aid the
Travellers if they are attacked but will also challenge them
to identify themselves and scan for contraband cargo.

156

Pirate: Pirates operate in three ways, all aimed at
avoiding contact with the authorities at a spaceport
(except in lawless systems where pirates operate
with impunity). Some ambush ships travelling through
normal space to outlying moons and colony worlds.
Others lurk around the 100-diameter mark, hoping to
surprise a ship as it prepares to jump. The pirates then
quickly loot the most valuable cargo and supplies, and
jump before the authorities arrive. The third category of
pirates have agents and spies in the starport and know
exactly which ships are suitable targets.
Pirates often use armed free traders or even scout/couriers.
Salvage: A derelict vessel or jettisoned cargo can be
salvaged. Universal law in space permits salvage but
the discovery must be registered first with the system
starport, if any. Roll 2D on the Salvage table, applying
DM-0 to -6 depending on how damaged the derelict is. If
the result is an 8+, then D3 times on the Salvage table.
Note that pirates have been known to use derelicts as bait…

FUEL

Most ships use refined hydrogen as fuel for their fusion
power plants engines and jump drives. Starports (see
page 257) and virtually any other facility that regularly
hosts spacecraft will offer refuelling facilities. Hydrogen
is obtained from water or the atmospheres of gas
giants and costs Cr500 per ton for refined fuel.
Some out-of-the-way places only offer unrefined fuel, at
the bargain price of just Cr100 per ton. Using unrefined
fuel is dangerous when jumping (see Jump Travel).
Either way, it typically takes 1D hours to refuel a
typical ship.

Salvage
2D

Salvage

2D

5

Junk: Minor personal effects, spare parts,
trophies and other junk.

10

6

Fuel: 2D x 10 tons of fuel can be extracted
from the salvage (not exceeding the derelict’s
maximum capacity)
Equipment: Items such as vacc suits,
medical supplies, weapons, with a total
value of 2D x Cr2000.

11

3 or less
4

7

Hazard! The ship’s reactor is damaged, the
8
ship is about to break up, there is a virus loose
aboard ship, an alien monster killed the crew...
No Salvage: Nothing useful can be recovered. 9

12

Salvage

Cargo: 2D tons of the derelict’s cargo. Roll
D66 on the Trade Goods table (page 244) to
determine the type.
Considerable Cargo: 2D x 10 tons of cargo (up
to the derelict’s maximum cargo).
Interesting Artefact: An alien relic, useful
personal data, mail cannister or other adventure
hook – or maybe a survivor in a low berth.
Fittings: Weapons turrets, ship’s computers or
air/raft, with a total value of 2D x Cr250000
Ship: The ship is potentially repairable.

