A ship with fuel scoops may gather fuel from bodies of
water using hoses. It may also scoop hydrogen from
a gas giant, requiring a Difficult (10+) Pilot check (1D
hours, DEX). Fuel gathered in the wild is unrefined but
a ship with fuel processors may refine it. More notes on
fuel scooping are covered in the Traveller Companion.

Jump!: Firing the jump drive requires an Easy (4+)
Engineer (j-drive) check (1D x 10 minutes, EDU),
modified by the task chain of the original Astrogation
check and the following modifiers.

JUMP TRAVEL

•
•

Jump travel covers the method by which ships can
travel the enormous distances needed to journey to
other star systems with relative speed. Other methods
of star travel are covered in High Guard.
Jump travel is the only known means by which a vessel
may travel faster than light. To jump, a ship creates
a bubble of hyperspace by means of injecting highenergy exotic particles into an artificial singularity. The
singularity is driven out of our universe, creating a tiny
parallel universe that is then blown up like a balloon
by injecting hydrogen into it. The jump bubble is folded
around the ship, carrying it into the little pocket universe.
This new universe is short-lived and will eventually
collapse, precipitating the ship back into normal space
several light-years from its original position.

PREPARING FOR JUMP

To jump, the following procedures must be performed
as a task chain using Astrogation and Engineer
(j-drive) checks.
Astrogation: The jump needs to be plotted. This is
an Easy (4+) Astrogation check (1D x 10 minutes,
EDU), modified by the jump distance (thus, a jump
covering four parsecs gives DM-4 to the check). If the
check is failed, then the astrogator must plot the jump
again. Astrogation can be done in advance (a jump is
normally plotted while the ship is travelling out to the
100-diameter distance).


Jump drive not maintained: DM-1 per month
behind maintenance
Using unrefined fuel: DM-2
Still within the 100-diameter limit: DM-4

If this check is failed, then the ship misjumps.
Divert Power: A jump drive requires a tremendous
amount of power to function, which must be supplied
by the ship’s power plant. On many vessels, especially
older ships, the power plant strains to provide this
much, leading to the tradition of ‘jump dimming’ where
non-essential systems including lighting is shut down
to allow for jump. If insufficient Power is available, the
jump drive cannot be activated.

JUMP TRAVEL

When making a jump, a ship will use an amount of
fuel equal to 10% of its hull tonnage for every parsec
jumped. For example, if a 200-ton ship makes a two
parsec jump, it will require 40 tons of fuel (10% of 200
tons = 20, multiplied by two parsecs = 40 tons).
A jump carries the vessel a number of parsecs equal
to the jump number. Jumps of less than one parsec
(less than three light years or one hex on a sector map)
are possible and count as jump-1 for the purposes of
Astrogation checks and fuel expenditure. Regardless of
how far the ship jumps, it always stays in jumpspace for
roughly one week (148 + 6D hours).
While in jumpspace, the ship is completely and utterly
cut off from the universe. It hangs in a shimmering
bubble of boiling hydrogen, a pocket dimension from
which nothing can escape. It cannot communicate with
the normal universe, not even by psionic means. It is
utterly alone.
When the ship exits jumpspace after an accurate jump,
it tends to arrive close to the target world but outside
or on the verge of the 100-diameter limit. Inaccurate
jumps dump the ship somewhere in the inner system,
requiring a long space flight.

MISJUMPS

On rare occasions, normally because of a lack of
maintenance or using unrefined fuel, a ship can
misjump. Many misjumps are lethal, causing the jump
bubble to collapse early or for time in the bubble to flow

spacecraft operations

A ship can only safely jump when it is more than 100
diameters distant from any object larger than the ship.
A vessel could only jump away from Earth, for example,
when it is more than 1.27 million kilometres distant (as
well as 140 million kilometres away from Sol and 300,000
kilometres away from the Moon). Gravity can cause a
jump bubble to collapse prematurely, bringing a ship back
into normal space early – so, if a ship tried to jump from
Earth to Mars when the Sun was between the two, the
vessel would fall out of jump space as soon as it came
within 100 diameters of the Sun.

•

157

