
differently, so that trillions of subjective years pass inside
the bubble and all that comes out the other end is hard
radiation caused by protons exceeding their half-life.
If the Engineer (j-drive) check made to initiate a jump is
failed by an Effect of -1, the ship will arrive in the target
system but appear 1D days later than normal. At the
referee’s option, roll an additional 1D – this is the number
of extra days the ship spends in jumpspace from the point
of view of the crew (the relativity error generated by this
misjump causes a difference in perceived time aboard the
ship and the rest of the universe).
If the Engineer (j-drive) check made to initiate a jump is
failed by an Effect of -2, the ship will arrive in the target
system but find itself a number of 100-diameters away
from the intended world multiplied by 1D.
If a worse Effect is rolled, a merciful referee may wish
to subject the Travellers to the most survivable form of
misjump, where the ship ends up 1D x 1D parsecs in a
random direction, potentially in deep (and empty) space.

PASSENGERS

Passenger travel within the Imperium has been
standardised into five overarching categories; High,
Middle, Basic, Working and Low. It is assumed that the
ship will take between one and three weeks to deliver the
passenger to its destination (allowing enough time to fly
out, jump for a week, then travel to the destination world).

spacecraft operations

The process of finding paying passengers is detailed
in the Trade chapter. However, ship captains hoping to
turn a profit when transporting passengers should be
aware of the following:

158

High Passage: The passenger gets the best possible
treatment. The passenger receives a stateroom and
one ton of cargo space for baggage and can expect
high-quality entertainment. One level of the Steward
skill is required for every 10 high passengers.
Middle Passage: Middle passage is generally sold
on a stand-by basis so middle passengers can be
‘bumped’ by high passengers who arrive later – many
ships will only take middle passengers if they cannot fill
staterooms with high passage clients or lack enough
stewards. Baggage allowance is 100kg. One level
of the Steward skill is required for every 100 middle
passengers. A Traveller with Steward 0 can provide
suitable services for 10 middle passengers.

Basic Passage: Also called steerage, this is where
a ship’s captain tries to fill all available space with
low-paying passengers. It is generally considered
more trouble than it is worth but there is nearly always
someone desperate enough to use basic passage.
Two basic passengers can be crammed into one
stateroom and other areas of the ship can be kitted out
with simple bunks to carry more – two tons of space is
required for every basic passenger not in a stateroom.
Baggage allowance is 10kg.
Working Passage: This is identical to middle
passage but the passenger pays their way by serving
on board ship in some capacity, usually fulfilling one
of the crew positions.
Low Passage: A low passenger is frozen in a low
berth and counts as cargo. There is real danger to the
passenger, as a Routine (6+) Medic check (1D x 10
minutes, INT) is required upon opening the capsule,
applying the passenger’s END DM to the check.
A further DM+1 is applied if the ship is TL12 or higher,
while non-humans suffer DM-2. An emergency low
berth inflicts DM-1 on this check.
If the check failed, the passenger does not survive.
It is customary for the ship’s captain to contribute Cr10
from every low passage towards a lottery in which
each low passenger randomly guesses how many will
survive the trip. If the winner is among the dead, the
captain collects the prize. The lottery is administered by
a ship’s steward.

REMOTE OPERATIONS

Some ships carry a variety of drones to enable their
crew to perform tasks without leaving their ship or
manoeuvring their vessel into hostile territory. Drones
are piloted from their mother ship with the Electronics
(remote ops) skill and can operate at up to Medium
range (see page 165).
Drones are typically man-sized and have gravitic
drives that allow them to operate in both space and
atmospheres. However, while they can land on a
planet, they do not have the power to travel from the
surface to orbit and must be recovered manually.
Some of the ships in the Common Spacecraft chapter
carry the drones detailed here. High Guard contains
more drones along with details on how they may be
used with any ship.

