MINING DRONES

Mining drones allow a ship to mine asteroids without
manoeuvring perilously close to spinning hunks of rock.
Each set of mining drones allows the ship to process
1D x 10 tons of asteroid per day (typically producing
common ore). The presence of drones includes ore
handling machinery, allowing the ship to take on ore
and transfer it to the cargo bay.

PROBE DRONES

Probe drones are for surveying planetary surfaces and
are commonly found on board scout ships. They can be
dropped from orbit in disposable entry shells but must
be recovered manually. Probe drones are also capable
of surveying orbiting satellites, derelicts and other space
debris and can also be used as communications relays.

REPAIR DRONES

Carrying repair drones allows a ship to make repairs
during combat, allowing access to exterior components
without risking crew. They also have sufficient
intelligence to allow repairs to be initiated by a drone
controller rather than a dedicated engineer.
Repair drones allows a Traveller with the Electronics
(remote ops) skill to use the Repair System action (see
page 172). The repair drones are considered to have
an Engineer skill level of 1 or the level the Traveller has
in Electronics (remote ops), whichever is lower, in all
specialities for the Repair System action alone.

REPAIRS

Damage to a ship falls into two categories – hull
damage and critical hits. See the Space Combat
chapter for how both are applied to a ship.
Critical Hit: A critical hit can be jury-rigged back to use
(see page 172) but will stop functioning again after 1D
hours. Properly repairing a critical hit requires not only
an Engineer or Mechanic check (1D hours) but also
spare parts. The Effect of the check determines how
many spare parts are required, minus the Severity of
the critical hit. Spare parts can be purchased at the
cost of Cr100000 per ton and capable captains will
always ensure they carry some in reserve.
A destroyed weapon or item of equipment will need to
be completely replaced, and cannot be repaired using
spare parts.
Hull Damage: Each lost Hull point can be replaced with
a Routine (6+) Mechanic check (1 hour, INT or EDU),
consuming one ton of spare parts.

Critical Hit Repair

Engineer or Mechanic Effect
1
2
3
4
5
6

Spare Parts Required

1 ton
0.8 tons
0.6 tons
0.4 tons
0.2 tons
None

spacecraft operations


159

