
Gaining access to the ship’s records requires
an Average (8+) Electronics (computers) check.
Convincing the computer you are a member of the crew
is Difficult (10+). Overriding security systems is Very
Difficult (12+) and gaining control of key systems like
navigation or power is Formidable (14+).
Note that Security software (see page 110) can be
installed on a ship’s computer to make a hacker’s job
even harder.

LOCKS

Doors, airlocks, lockers and other secure panels are
locked. In general, external locks are tougher than
internal ones (increasing the difficulty by one level).
Locks used on spacecraft are generally electronic but
other types are possible.

spacecraft operations

Mechanical: Requiring a key or combination. These
can be opened with an Average (8+) Mechanics check
or by stealing a key/learning the combination.
Electronic: Requiring a keycard or combination.
These can be opened with a Difficult (10+)
Electronics (computers) check or by stealing a key/
learning the combination.
Biometric: Requiring a voiceprint, DNA test, palm
print or retina scan. These can be opened with a Very
Difficult (12+) Electronics (computers) check or by
stealing a sample from an authorised person.
Intelligent: Intelligent locks recognise authorised
crew. These can be opened with a Very Difficult (12+)
Electronics (computers) check or by hacking the
ship’s computer.

162

Any non-mechanical lock can be opened or closed
remotely if the crew wishes to allow this option (but
then the doors can also be hacked). Bulkhead doors
(also called iris valves) on a ship are airtight but others,
such as those leading to staterooms, are not.

SECURITY SYSTEMS

If a ship finds itself the target of hijacking or boarding,
there are several security systems common to all
vessels that can be employed by the crew.
Alarms: If an alarm is tripped (hull breach, fire, door
being forced open, alarm button pressed), it will alert
the crew. The location of the alarm will be shown
on computer displays. A passenger ship may have
several crew trained in combat; military ships will carry
dedicated marines. Some vessels may even have
security robots who respond automatically to alarms.
Gravity: It is possible to alter the artificial gravity on
board. Reducing gravity to zero will limit actions to

the level of an attacker’s Athletics (dexterity) skill (see
Zero Gravity on page 81). Gravity can also safely be
increased up to 3G with an Electronics (computers)
check, which will count as high gravity (see page 80).
Tranq Gas: Some ships carry tranq gas canisters in
the air vents, which can be released automatically.
These flood a compartment with gas that forces
END checks, with a cumulative DM-1 every round.
Any Traveller who fails the END check is knocked
unconscious for 2D minutes.
Venting Atmosphere: If a compartment is connected
to an airlock, then the air can be vented from that area.
Travellers in that area must make a STR check to hang
on and not be blown out into space and will also begin
to suffocate.

