•
•
•
•
•

Fire Control programs can either act as gunners or
assist gunners.
A ship equipped with repair drones and Auto-Repair
software can perform damage control.
A ship running an Intellect program and Expert
(engineer – j-drive, m-drive or power) can act as
an engineer.
A ship running an Intellect program and Expert
(pilot) can act as the pilot.
A ship running an Intellect program and Expert
(electronics - sensors) can act as a sensor operator.

STARTING A BATTLE

Before a battle begins, it is important to note where ships
are relative to one another. In general, all that is required
in space is to know how far away each ship is from its
opponents. This is determined by using Range Bands,
as described in the Combat chapter, although the actual
distance for each Range Band is much greater in space
combat. Consult the Range Bands table for reference.

Range Bands
Range Band
Adjacent
Close
Short
Medium
Long
Very Long
Distant

Distance

1km or less
1–10km
11–1,250km
1,251–10,000km
10,001–25,000km
25,001–50,000km
More than 50,000km

INITIATIVE

Once the relative positions of ships have been
determined and crew assigned to duties, the battle
begins. Initiative is rolled once for each ship as usual
when the combat begins but with spacecraft you roll
the following:
2D + the pilot’s Pilot skill + the ship’s Thrust score

Most spacecraft are manoeuvrable enough to
spin or rotate to face their enemies in combat
and have weapons mounted in turrets with
very wide fire arcs so, generally speaking, it is
not important to track which way a spacecraft
is facing as it is with vehicles. However, some
spacecraft, particularly small craft such as
fighters, have fixed weapon mounts and must
actually point towards the target they are
engaging. In this instance, it can be important to
keep track of where a spacecraft is pointing.

TACTICS (NAVAL) SKILL

In addition, the commander of each spacecraft (or the
commander of a fleet, if more than one ship is present)
may make a Tactics (naval) check at the start of a
battle. The Effect of this check is added to the Initiative
of the spacecraft (or fleet).

SURPRISE

Under normal circumstances, surprise is very difficult
to achieve in space, as there are few places to hide
behind. However, damaged sensors or inattentive
sensor operators can mean a ship can approach
another without being spotted and some ships may use
asteroids or other astronomical objects to hide behind,
while others may pretend to be harmless and then
suddenly reveal their intentions.
If one ship does manage to surprise another, its
opponent will not be able to take any actions in the first
round of the combat.

MANOEUVRE STEP

In order of Initiative, each ship can allocate Thrust
to either movement (closing or increasing the range
between it and another ship) or combat manoeuvring
(docking with another vessel, lining up a shot or
dodging incoming fire).
All movement and combat manoeuvring is performed
by the Traveller assigned to pilot duty.

space combat

Most hostile encounters in space will start at Very Long
or Distant ranges, when the combatants first detect one
another. However, actual combat will start when one of
the combatants manages to move into range of their
weapons, typically Long or Medium range. However, in
some circumstances ships might get a lot closer before
hostilities begin, perhaps getting as near as Close
range if a pirate successfully pretends to be an honest
merchant, for example.

FACING AND FIRE ARCS

Ships with better pilots and faster manoeuvre drives will
therefore be quicker to act in space combat.


165

