
MOVEMENT

The amount of Thrust required to increase or decrease
the Range Band between ships by one category, up
or down, is shown on the Ship Movement table – the
Thrust listed is the amount required to move from that
Range Band to either the next closest or next furthest.
A ship can spend Thrust over multiple rounds to close
or open a category.
If two ships are travelling towards one another, then
the proportion of their Thrusts devoted to movement
are added together for the purposes of Range Band
changes. If one ship is trying to escape another, then
subtract the lower Thrust from the higher to work out
the Range Band change – the faster ship will either
gain on or pull away from the slower.
As will be readily apparent, it takes a lot of Thrust to
move between Range Bands once ships get to Long
range or further. This is because space is vast and
even the most powerful ships take a long time to
cross any significant distance. At these ranges, ships
will rarely expend vital energy trying to change range
unless they are looking to board a target or escape.
Note that once a spacecraft moves to within Close or
Adjacent range of another, immediately start using the
Dogfighting rules on page 174.

COMBAT MANOEUVRING

Any remaining Thrust that has not been allocated for
movement may be used for combat manoeuvring.

space combat

One point of Thrust allows a ship to do one of the
following, and several of these manoeuvres may be
attempted if enough Thrust is available. However,
each manoeuvre may only be attempted once with the
exception of Evasive Action.

166

Aid Gunners: A pilot may attempt to aid thair gunners by
providing a more stable firing platform along the optimum
attack vector. The pilot makes a Pilot check to start a task
chain with their gunners, as described on page 63.

Ship Movement
Range Band
Adjacent
Close
Short
Medium
Long
Very Long
Distant

Distance

1km or less
1–10km
11–1,250km
1,251–10,000km
10,001–25,000km
25,001–50,000km
More than 50,000km

Docking: The pilot must make a successful Pilot
check. If the other ship does not wish to be docked,
then both ships must make opposed Pilot checks, with
the ship trying to dock suffering DM-2. When a docking
is successful, boarding actions can take place.
Evasive Action: Any remaining Thrust can be used as
a reaction to dodge incoming fire. This is covered on
page 171.

ATTACK STEP

Once all ships have worked out their movement and
combat manoeuvring, they can launch attacks! This is
done in Initiative order.
Attacking with weapons mounted on spacecraft uses
the same rules as detailed in the Combat chapter, with
the following exceptions:
•
•

Firing a spacecraft-mounted weapon uses the
Gunner skill.
The maximum Range of weapons is noted in
Range Bands, not metres.

Weapons on board a spacecraft are fired by Travellers
assigned to gunner duty. However, a pilot may fire any
weapons in a single turret at DM-2 to the attack roll or
weapons noted as being in fixed mounts (this is usually
found on smaller craft that are not always large enough
to accommodate turrets, such as fighters and shuttles).

FIRING WEAPONS

When a ship fires at another, it declares it is going to
attack and selects a target. The target may then choose
to perform Evasive Action. The Traveller on gunner duty
for the weapon being fired then makes an appropriate
skill check and, as normal for any skill check, if they
total 8+, the attack is successful and damage is dealt to
the target (see Damaging Spacecraft on page 168).

Thrust Required

1
1
2
5
10
25
50

Example

Docked ships
Nearby or dogfighting vessels
Ships in same orbital path
Surface to orbit
Near to a planet
Within jump limit
Distant ships

