REACTIONS

Just as in other forms of combat, those on board
a spacecraft can perform reactions in response to
the enemy they are fighting. Reactions can only be
performed by Travellers assigned to specific duties, as
described below.

EVASIVE ACTION (PILOT)

The pilot of a spacecraft may dodge incoming attacks,
so long as the spacecraft has unspent Thrust after
movement and combat manoeuvring.
Each point of unspent Thrust will allow the spacecraft
to attempt to dodge one attack. The attack suffers a
negative DM equal to the pilot’s skill.

POINT DEFENCE (GUNNER)

Using a turret-mounted laser (beam or pulse), a gunner
can destroy incoming missiles. Note that a weapon
used for point defence cannot be used to make attacks
in the same combat round and vice versa. Point
Defence may only be performed against missile salvos
(see page 172) as they are about to make their attack
roll against a target – missiles are too small and too
fast to be targeted at greater ranges. A gunner may
only attempt Point Defence once every round.
The gunner must succeed at a Gunner (turret) check
against any missile salvo that is about to make its
attack roll against their spacecraft. The Effect of the
check will remove that many missiles from the salvo. A
turret equipped with two lasers provides DM+1 to this
check, while a turret equipped with three lasers will
provide DM+2

DISPERSE SAND (GUNNER)

Using a turret-mounted sandcaster, a gunner can
attempt to block laser attacks. The gunner must succeed
at a Gunner (turret) check against a laser weapon and,
if successful, will add 1D plus the Effect of the check to
the ship’s armour against that laser attack only. Each
Disperse Sand reaction uses one canister of sand.
Sand may also be directed against incoming boarding
parties. If the Gunner (turret) check is successful, each
target in the boarding party suffers 8D point of damage
at Ground scale (so do not multiply it).

Once all ships have resolved their attacks, their crew
can perform one action each in the Actions Step. This is
done in Initiative order and the actions a crewman can
perform are determined by the duty they are assigned to.

IMPROVE INITIATIVE (CAPTAIN)

The captain of the spacecraft may perform a
Leadership check. The Effect of this check (even if it is
negative!) is applied to the Initiative of the spacecraft
for the next round only.

JUMP (ENGINEER)

See Jump Travel on page 157. Jumping in combat
is the same as jumping in normal conditions but the
astrogation calculations have to be done in a hurry,
raising the difficulty one level on both the Astrogation
and Engineer (j-drive) checks to bring the time down to
1D minutes (within one combat round).

OFFLINE SYSTEM (ENGINEER)

Specific systems and weapons on board the ship can
be powered down to reduce the energy requirement
from the power plant, allowing Power to be used for
other systems. A successful Engineer (power) check (1
round, EDU) will allow the engineer to shut down any
number of systems, freeing up Power for subsequent
rounds. It requires another round to bring any of these
systems back online.

OVERLOAD DRIVE (ENGINEER)

By overloading the manoeuvre drive, the engineer
can lend the ship extra speed and manoeuvrability. A
successful Difficult (10+) Engineer (m-drive) check (1
round, INT) will increase the ship’s Thrust by +1 during
the next round. If the check fails with an Effect of –6
or less, the manoeuvre drive suffers a critical hit with
Severity 1, as detailed on page 168. This check suffers
a cumulative DM–2 each time it is attempted after
the first. This penalty can be removed by performing
maintenance on the drive, a procedure that requires
Engineer (m-drive) and 1D hours.

OVERLOAD PLANT (ENGINEER)

A favourite of engineers on action vids, the power plant
can be overstressed on a temporary basis to provide
the ship with more Power. A successful Difficult (10+)
Engineer (power) check (1 round, INT) will increase the
ship’s current Power by +10% during the next round. If
the check fails with an Effect of –6 or less, the power
plant suffers a critical hit with Severity 1, as detailed
on page 168. This check suffers a cumulative DM–2

space combat

While cheap and versatile, laser weapons are easily
foiled by dispersed particles or sand as it is often
called. Sandcasters are designed to create temporary
defences against incoming laser attacks.

ACTIONS STEP

171

