
each time it is attempted after the first. This penalty can
be removed by performing maintenance on the power
plant, a procedure that requires Engineer (power) and
1D hours.

REPAIR SYSTEM (ENGINEER)

A Traveller on engineer duty can attempt to affect a
quick repair to the effects of a critical hit. This requires
an Average (8+) Engineer check (1 round, INT or EDU)
with a negative DM equal to the Severity of the critical
hit. A cumulative DM+1 is gained every round the
Traveller works on repairing the same critical hit. If the
spacecraft receives a critical hit to the same location
during this time, the Traveller must start again from the
beginning with no positive DM.
Note that only the effects of the critical hit can be
repaired and these quick repairs will only last for 1D
hours. Any Hull damage or destroyed equipment and
weapons cannot be repaired this way and will require
the spacecraft to leave combat.

RELOAD TURRET (GUNNER)

During prolonged battles, turrets mounted with
sandcasters or missile racks may run out of
ammunition. A turret may be reloaded by any Traveller
with the Gunner skill but it will be unable to make any
attacks in that round.

SENSOR LOCK (SENSOR OPERATOR)

An improved target lock may be obtained on an enemy
spacecraft with a successful Electronics (sensors)
check. Attacks made by the spacecraft against this
target gain DM+2 until the sensor lock is broken (see
Electronic Warfare).

space combat

ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SENSOR OPERATOR)

172

REASSIGNMENT (ANY)

Any Traveller may elect to change their assigned duty
instead of performing any other action. They do nothing
else in this round but will have adopted their new duty
in the following round.

MISSILE COMBAT

Unlike most weapons that travel at or close to the
speed of light and so hit enemy ships almost instantly,
missiles take time to cross the gulf of space. However,
despite this drawback, missiles are capable of doing a
great deal of damage when they hit an enemy ship.

LAUNCHING MISSILES

Missiles used against targets within Adjacent or Close
ranges lose any Smart trait they possess, as there is
not enough time for them to obtain a solid lock and take
advantage of their advanced guidance systems.
Missiles are launched in salvos. A salvo is all the
missiles launched by a ship against a single target in the
same combat round. This could be a single missile from
a single turret, three from a triple turret with three missile
racks or dozens from multiple turrets or bays (see High
Guard for more information on weapon bays).
Missile salvos effectively have Thrust 10 and will reach
their target a number of combat rounds after they have
been fired, as shown on the Missile Flight table.

Missile Flight
Range

Medium and below
Long
Very Long
Distant

Rounds to Impact
Immediate
1
4
10

A ship’s sensor operator may attempt to jam the
communications of an enemy by making an opposed
Electronics (comms) check against the sensor operator
in the target spacecraft. The same process may also
be used with the Electronics (sensors) skill to break a
sensor lock.

Note that while missile salvos can be fired at Distant
ranges, the attacking ship must have detected its
target before they can be launched. Given the limited
information that can be gained from sensors at this
range, friendly fire incidents may be common among
Travellers who are too trigger happy with their missiles.

BOARDING ACTION (MARINE)

If a missile has not reached its target within 10 rounds,
it will run out of fuel and become inert.

If two ships are at Adjacent range, it is possible to
launch a boarding party to storm an enemy ship.
Boarding actions are covered on page 175.

DETECTING MISSILE LAUNCH

Once missiles have been launched at a ship, the target
has options to avoid the attack or reduce the number of
missiles that reach it. However, in order to do this, the
crew must know that missiles are in-bound!

