When a ship launches missiles, sensor operators on
board other ships may make an immediate Routine (6+)
Electronics (sensors) check in order to detect them. If
the firing ship has not been detected itself, this becomes
an Average (8+) check. DM+1 is applied for every full 10
missiles in the salvo, up to a maximum of DM+6.
Undetected missiles may be picked up by the sensor
operator at the start of every combat round with an
Average (8+) Electronics (sensors) check.

COUNTERMEASURES

Combat involving missiles creates a very tense
atmosphere. The target spacecraft will likely have
detected the launches and its crew will have several
anxious minutes to watch the blips on their sensor
screens gradually get closer and closer.
Fortunately, the crew need not be idle as they await
their destruction as there are several countermeasures
that can be taken against incoming missiles.
As missiles can take several rounds to reach
their targets, you should keep track of how many
missiles remain within each salvo, reducing them as
countermeasures take effect.
Electronic Warfare: A Traveller performing sensor
operator duties on a spacecraft can use the Electronic
Warfare action to destroy or misdirect incoming
missiles before they impact their vessel or another ship
within Close range.
During the Actions Step, the sensor operator must
succeed at a Difficult (10+) Electronics (sensors) check
in order to destroy or render inert incoming missiles
within a single salvo. The Effect of this check will
immediately remove that many missiles from the salvo.

Flee: A spacecraft under missile attack may simply
turn around and engage its manoeuvre drive,
thrusting away from the missiles by increasing the
Range Band between missiles and ship. Missiles
are extremely long-ranged weapons and so it is not
normally possible to outrange a missile in this way but
it can perhaps buy enough time to prolong electronic
warfare or make a jump.


MISSILES AND TARGETS

When a missile salvo reaches its target, the missile
makes an attack roll as normal in the Attack Step.
However, neither the Gunner skill of the Traveller(s) that
fired the salvo nor range are used as modifiers. Other
modifiers, such Evasive Action, are used as normal.
Instead, the number of missiles remaining in the salvo
greatly affects their chances of making a successful
attack. Apply DM+1 to the attack roll for every missile in
the salvo.
Note that missiles almost always have the Smart trait
(see page 79). For missiles, use the TL of the missile
itself or that of the attacking ship, whichever is greater.
Finally, missiles launched at Distant range expend
most of their fuel just reaching their target, leaving
little to counter the target’s manoeuvres. Missile
salvos launched at Distant range suffer DM–2 to their
attack rolls.

IMPACT

If an attack roll for a missile salvo is successful, the
target will sustain damage. Roll for damage as if for a
single missile and deduct the target’s armour as normal
but do not apply the Effect of the attack roll. Instead,
any damage is multiplied by the Effect of the attack
roll but the Effect cannot be higher than the number of
remaining missiles in the salvo.

VARIANT MISSILES

High Guard introduces different types of missiles that are
more accurate, carry more fuel or are faster but these
rules suit the missiles included in the Traveller Core
Rulebook. If a ship launches different types of missile at
the same target in the same round, then all the missiles
of each type are counted as a different salvo.

DOGFIGHTING

As mentioned at the start of this chapter, spacecraft
fighting at ranges of less than 10km or attacking
vehicles or Travellers directly, use the normal six
second combat round rather than the six minute round
normally used for space combat.

space combat

Electronic Warfare may be performed upon a salvo
multiple times over several rounds, with the effects
being cumulative. However, a salvo may only be
subjected to Electronic Warfare once per round, no
matter how many sensor operators are available.

Point Defence: Finally, just as a salvo is about to
strike, gunners may engage in point defence, as
detailed on page 171.

173

