
Combat is conducted using the dogfighting rules for
vehicles. Remember to take into account scaling
differences for damage and attack rolls as described on
page 138 vehicles or Travellers are directly involved.
Dogfighting does not cost an action – it is automatic if two
hostile vessels wish to interact at a close enough range.
Escaping from a Dogfight requires having greater
Thrust than your enemy or for your enemy to be willing
to let you leave. If neither of these conditions are true,
then your only choice is to win the dogfight!

Note that many weapons mounted on spacecraft are in
turrets and are able to fire into any facing, meaning that
dogfights will normally only force a penalty to the attack
rolls of the loser, not remove their ability to fight.
If the dogfight continues into the following combat
round, the winner of the previous dogfight applies the
difference between that round’s opposed Pilot check as
a positive DM to this round’s opposed check.

DOGFIGHTING VEHICLES

DOGFIGHTS

Combat rounds in dogfights are six seconds long and
follow the normal combat rules as detailed on page
138. The combat steps detailed on page 164 are not
used in dogfights.

In addition to the dogfighting modifiers listed, spacecraft
suffer an additional DM–2 when dogfighting vehicles.
In the spacecraft’s favour, very powerful engines can
counter this, although a typical merchant will be very
ponderous in a dogfight.

At the start of every round, the pilots of both spacecraft
make opposed Pilot checks, with the following modifiers.

Dogfighting Modifiers
Dogfighter

Ship is 50 tons or more
Ship is 100 tons or more
For every 100 tons more
than 100 tons
For every additional
enemy in the dogfight
after the first
Ship’s Thrust

space combat

The dogfighting rules used for spacecraft are compatible
with those used for vehicles and may be used when
a spacecraft enters an atmosphere and, perhaps, is
forced to engage with jet or grav fighters. However, even
relatively nimble space fighters are designed for battle
across enormous distances in the void of space and will
find themselves at a disadvantage against smaller and
more nimble vehicles.

Battling spacecraft within Close or Adjacent range of
one another use these ‘dogfight’ rules. This is a series
of manoeuvres whereby the pilot of one ship attempts
to gain a position of advantage over another.

174

Modifier
-1
-2
-1
-1
+1 per point of Thrust
dedicated to dogfighting

A draw means that neither ship may attack the other
with fixed weapons. The winner may choose to place
their opponent’s ship in a fire arc of their choice and
may choose which of the opposing ship’s fire arcs their
own vehicle lies in.
In this way, the winner of a dogfight can ensure all their
forward facing weapons can attack their enemy while
ensuring they stays out of their opponent’s forward
facing (and the weapons present there). In addition, the
winner of a dogfight gains DM+2 to all their attack rolls
for this round while the loser suffers DM–2.

Spacecraft are capable of any Speed Band listed in
the Vehicles chapter and will typically be going at
Hypersonic speeds when entering an atmosphere.

DOGFIGHTING AND DISTANT ENEMIES

Under normal circumstances, spacecraft involved in
dogfights cannot take actions against those at further
ranges as their crew are far too focused on more
immediate dangers much closer. By the same token,
spacecraft outside of a dogfight cannot attack within for
fear of hitting a friendly ship (if they do not overly care
about that, the referee is welcome to randomise targets).
A dogfight will normally be over long before spacecraft
outside it are able to act, as dogfights use six second
rounds while space combat usually uses six minute
rounds, so resolve the dogfight fully before moving
back to space combat rounds.

