BOARDING ACTIONS

There is little in space combat more exciting and
terrifying than a boarding action. Marines launch
themselves from a closely manoeuvring ship or
dedicated small craft and hurl themselves at an enemy
vessel in an attempt to gain entry and pacify the crew.
These actions lead to vicious firefights with highpowered weaponry being used in the tight confines of a
ship’s corridors.
Once two ships are within less than one kilometre of
each other (Adjacent range), any marines on board
can launch a boarding action during the Actions Step.
A boarding action takes 2D rounds to complete, after
which its results are decided.

RESOLVING A BOARDING ACTION

To resolve a boarding action, both sides roll 2D, apply
the following modifiers and then the defender deducts
their total from that of the attacker. The final score is
then compared on the Boarding Actions table.
Boarding Actions
Superior Armour			
Superior Weaponry			
Superior Skills and Tactics		
Superior Numbers			
Vastly Superior Numbers		
Defender has no Marines on duty

+1
+1
+2
+1
+3
-2

At their option, the referee may like to continue playing
out the boarding action at the Ground scale on any
‘fighting continues’ result. The attackers will have
successfully gained entry to the enemy ship and will
now be desperately trying to expand their way out of the
beachhead. This will be an opportunity for the Travellers
to make their own decisions when fighting the crew of
the enemy ship and of what targets they will try to reach.

Total

-7 or less
-4 to -6
-1 to -3
0
1 to 3
4 to 6
7 or more

Result

The attackers are soundly defeated. If the attacker’s ship is docked with the defender’s, the
defenders may mount a new boarding action of their own and gain DM+4 on the roll to resolve it.
The attackers are defeated. The attackers must retreat back to their own ship or space – if they are
unable to do so, they are killed or captured.
Fighting continues. Resolve the boarding again in another 1D rounds but the defender gains DM+2 to
their roll. The ship being boarded loses 2D Hull.
Fighting continues. Resolve the boarding again in another 1D rounds.
Fighting continues. Resolve the boarding again in another 1D rounds but the attacker gains DM+2 to
their roll. The ship being boarded loses 2D Hull.
The boarding action is successful and the ship being boarded suffers 1D damage, ignoring any
armour. The attackers may take control of the ship after another 2D rounds of pacification.
The attackers storm the enemy ship and take control of it immediately.

space combat

Boarding Actions

175

