SPACECRAFT CONSTRUCTION
The spacecraft construction system detailed in this
chapter is your gateway to create your own ships or
reverse engineer existing designs, allowing you to
populate the spacelanes of your universe with unique
craft. These rules will allow you to create the most
common sorts of ships likely to appear in a campaign
but if you want to try your hand at much larger or more
specialised vessels, consult High Guard.
Throughout the design process, you will keep track of
two key numbers – the total tonnage of the ship (and
how much space each added component consumes)
and the total cost. The mathematics required to create
a ship are not complex but you may find it handy to
have a calculator close by!

CONSTRUCTION TIMES

Construction times vary wildly, depending on the size
and complexity of the spacecraft and the capabilities of
the shipyard. On average, assume that it takes one day
per million Credits to build a spacecraft at an average
commercial shipyard.

STEP 1: CREATE A HULL

The first step in designing a ship is to build its hull – this
is the body of the ship, its fuselage.
Decide on the total tonnage of the ship. This will affect
the performance of the ship and, ultimately, limit what it
can carry and achieve.
A basic hull costs Cr50000 per ton. The ship will have 1
Hull point for every full 2.5 tons of hull.

HULL CONFIGURATION

The configuration of a hull dictates its shape which, in
turn, affects the capability of the ship. Some ships may
be capable of entering atmospheres, for example, while
others may be destroyed if they try.

Hull Armour

176

The hull configuration chosen for a ship can often affect
its cost as more complex engineering factors must be
resolved before it can be built, as shown on the Hull
Configuration table. Once chosen for a ship, the hull
configuration can never be changed – it is not possible
to retrofit a new hull configuration.

Hull Configuration

Hull Configuration Streamlined? Hull Points Cost
Standard

Partial

—

—

Streamlined

Yes

—

+20%

Dispersed
Structure

No

-10%

-50%

Streamlined hulls include hulls that are needles,
wedges, cones and cylinders in shape. They are
designed to enter planetary atmospheres and function
in a similar fashion to conventional aircraft.
Starting at TL9, all hulls are self-sealing. A self-sealing
hull automatically repairs minor breaches such as
micrometeoroid impacts and prevents hull hits causing
explosive decompression.

INSTALL ARMOUR

All hulls provide some protection from celestial hazards
but it is possible to add heavier armour for better defence.
All hulls start with armour Protection +0, although
this can be improved upon. Dispersed structure ships
cannot be given increased armour.
The Hull Armour table shows how much of the hull’s
tonnage is consumed per point of Protection added,
along with its costs. A minimum TL is required for each
type of armour and there is a maximum amount that
can be attached to a hull – this includes any armour the
ship had prior to modification.

Armour

TL

Tonnage Consumed

Cost (as percentage of hull cost)

Max. Protection

Crystaliron

10

1.25%

5%

TL or 13, (whichever is less)

Bonded
Superdense

14

0.80%

8%

TL

