This is not strictly necessary and ships can and will
vary in this allocation, either increasing it to give crews
and passengers a more luxurious (or at least more
comfortable) journey or cutting back to give more space
to useful components though at a cost of crew comfort.
Common areas cost MCr0.1 per ton.

STEP 12: ALLOCATE CARGO SPACE

Any space left on the ship that has not been allocated
to other components is considered to be free for cargo.
There is no cost associated with areas designated for
cargo but any cargo or other materials taken on board
the ship can obviously not exceed the tonnage set
aside for cargo.

STEP 13: FINALISE DESIGN

Once cargo space has been allocated, the design
process has been completed – your ship is now
ready to fly.
All that remains is to total up the tonnage consumed by
components to ensure you have not tried to squeeze
too much within the hull and to add up all components
to find the final cost of the ship. If you need to go back
and revise any part of the ship, now is the time.
At this point, you should work out the maintenance cost
of the ship. For this, simply take the total cost of the
ship, minus any other ships it is carrying and divide by
1,000. Divide this final figure by 12, and you will have
the regular maintenance cost of the ship, payable every
Maintenance Period (see page 46).

Weapons (both offensive and defensive in nature) are
an important component for many ships. Presented
here are some of options available to spacecraft
architects looking to weaponise their creations.

NUMBER OF WEAPONS

There are only so many weapons that can be attached
to a ship, the limiting factors being the supply of energy,
the stresses imposed upon the hull through the use of
high-powered weaponry and the surface area of a hull
it is possible to cover with weapons.


A ship has one Hardpoint for every full 100 tons of its hull.
Each weapon system uses one Hardpoints.

SMALL CRAFT

Ships of less than 100 tons have Firmpoints instead
of Hardpoints. A Firmpoint on a small craft is a
fixed mount (typically forward-facing but there is no
requirement for this) but can be upgraded to a single
(not double or triple) turret.
A ship of less than 35 tons has one Firmpoint. A
ship of 35–70 tons has two Firmpoints, and a ship of
71–99 tons has three Firmpoints. Beyond this size,
ships use Hardpoints.
A weapon mounted upon a Firmpoint has the following
changes applied to it:
•
•
•

Weapons of Medium range or less are reduced to
Adjacent range.
Weapons of greater range are reduced to Close
range.
A weapon on a Firmpoint may not have its range
increased beyond Close by any means.

TURRETS AND FIXED MOUNTS

Turrets and fixed mounts use the same type of
weapons but whereas a fixed mount may only fire at
targets directly ahead of it, a turret rotates and may
engage any target in sight.
One turret or fixed mount may be attached to each
Hardpoint on a ship.
Up to three weapons may be mounted on a fixed mount
(small craft may only mount one weapon), while turrets
can mount one, two or three weapons, depending on
their type. These weapons need not be identical.
If two or more weapons are of the same type, they
may be fired together. One attack roll is made for all
weapons being fired but each additional weapon adds
+1 per damage dice to the final damage total.
Turrets and fixed mounts require just one gunner to
operate, even if multiple weapons are mounted upon them.

spacecraft construction

WEAPONS AND SCREENS

Spacecraft therefore have a maximum number of
Hardpoints to which weapons can be attached.

183

