When empty, collapsible tanks take up 1% of the
tonnage they use when full. They cost Cr500 per ton.

Every 10 tons dedicated to mining drones contains five
drones and costs MCr1.

CONCEALED COMPARTMENT

Probe Drones: Probe drones are for surveying
planetary surfaces and are commonly found on
board scout ships. They can be dropped from orbit
in disposable entry shells but must be recovered
manually. Probe drones are alo capable of surveying
orbiting satellites, derelicts and other space debris, and
can also be used as communication relays.

A smuggler’s favourite, concealed compartments are
cunningly hidden from visual searches and shielded
against sensors, allowing them to be used to transport
contraband or other questionable items.
Up to 5% of a ship’s tonnage may be designated
as a concealed compartment and inflicts DM–2 to
Electronics (sensors) checks and DM–4 to Investigate
checks made to search for it.
Concealed compartments cost Cr20000 per ton.

DOCKING SPACE

This is an internal bay in which a smaller auxiliary ship
or vehicle can dock. When sealed, the docking space
completely covers the auxiliary ship. It normally takes
1D minutes for the auxiliary ship to enter or leave the
larger ship.
Docking space consumes an amount of tonnage equal
to that of the largest ship to be docked, plus 10%
(round up to the nearest ton). Use Shipping size for
vehicles, as detailed on page 137.
Docking space costs MCr0.25 per ton.

DRONES

Drones are small robotic craft typically controlled
from the bridge or dedicated station. They are used
as labour-saving devices and for tasks that might
otherwise endanger the crew.

Each ton dedicated to probe drones contains five
drones and costs MCr0.5
Repair Drones: Carrying repair drones allows a ship to
make repairs during combat, allowing access to exterior
components without risking crew. They also have
sufficient intelligence to allow repairs to be initiated by a
drone controller rather than a dedicated engineer.
Repair drones allows a Traveller with the Electronics
(remote ops) skill to use the Repair System action (see
page 173). The repair drones are considered to have
an Engineer skill level of 1 or the level the Traveller has
in Electronics (remote ops), whichever is lower, in all
specialities for the Repair System action alone.
A ship needs to dedicate 1% of its tonnage for effective
repair drone coverage (minimum 1 ton), at a cost of
MCr0.2 per ton.

FUEL PROCESSOR

Fuel processors convert unrefined fuel (typically
acquired through the use of a fuel scoop) into refined
fuel, making the ship both self-reliant and safe.
Each ton of fuel processor can convert 20 tons of
unrefined fuel into refined fuel per day.

Mining Drones: Mining drones are larger unmanned
craft that allow a ship to mine asteroids without
manoeuvring perilously close to spinning hunks of
rock. Each set of five mining drones allows the ship
to process 1D x 10 tons of asteroid per day (typically
producing common ore, as detailed on page 244). The
tonnage consumed includes ore handling machinery,
allowing the ship to take on ore and transfer it to the
cargo bay.

Fuel scoops allow an unstreamlined ship to gather
unrefined fuel from a gas giant (streamlined ships have
fuel scoops built in automatically).

Each ton consumed by fuel processors costs Cr50000.
Fuel processors require 1 Power per ton.

FUEL SCOOP

Adding scoops costs MCr1 and consumes no tonnage.

spacecraft construction

Drones are typically human-sized and have gravitic
drives that allow them to operate in both space and
atmospheres. However, while they can land on a
planet, they do not have the power to travel from the
surface to orbit and must be recovered manually. The
Electronics (remote ops) skill is required for their use.

185

