
HIGH STATEROOMS

These are very similar to the staterooms detailed
on page 182 but are trimmed in finer materials and
offer more space for the occupant. They are not
required for a ship to take on high passengers but
a high passenger will almost always choose a ship
that has a stateroom they deem appropriate. A high
stateroom will typically grant DM+1 when seeking high
passengers (see page 238).
A high stateroom consumes six tons of space and
costs MCr0.8.

HOLOGRAPHIC CONTROLS (TL9)

This bridge design incorporates advanced interactive
holographic displays and can automatically reconfigure
itself to adapt to changing situations. A bridge with
holographic controls is always optimised for the task at
hand and grants DM+2 when rolling for Initiative.

spacecraft construction

Holographic controls add +25% to the cost of the bridge.

186

Holographic Hull (TL10)
Multiple holographic projectors are embedded within
the hull allowing the ship to change hull colours, add
graphics and adopt a different appearance (although
its shape remains the same). Changing the hull colour
or adding a stored graphic can be done by anyone
with access to the ship’s computer. Creating a complex
colour scheme from scratch requires the talents of
a skilled artist. Some young nobles try to outdo one
another by changing the schemes daily or hiring artists
to create the most complex scenes imaginable. Some
pirates have made use of this system to simulate
visual hull damage and lure other ships in with a GK
distress call. However, most ship owner’s use it for the
purposes of advertising.
A holographic hull system costs Cr100000 per ton of
hull and uses 1 Power for every two tons of hull. The
projectors are small enough that they do not consume
tonnage themselves.

LABORATORY

Space allocated to laboratories can be used for
research and experimentation, effectively turning the
ship into a space-going laboratory.
Every four tons dedicated to laboratories space allows
one scientist to perform research on board the ship.
The cost for research equipment can vary depending
on the nature of research undertaken but is generally
around MCr1 for every four tons.

LIBRARY (TL8)

A library room contains computer files as well as
lecterns, display screens, holotanks and perhaps even
hard copies of books. A good library is useful for both
research and passing time in jump space.
Having a library on board a ship grants DM+1 on any
EDU check made when training for new skills in jump
space or other periods of extended inactivity.
A library consumes four tons and costs MCr4.

LUXURY STATEROOMS

This is state of the art accommodation for the most
discerning passenger. It is noticeably a step above
even the high stateroom and more richly appointed,
found on private yachts and the most luxurious of
liners. A luxury stateroom will typically grant DM+2
when seeking high passengers (see page 238).
A luxury stateroom consumes 10 tons of space and
costs MCr1.5.

MEDICAL BAY

The presence of a medical bay on board a ship can
mean the difference between life and death for the
crew, so long as there are sufficiently trained personnel
on board.
A medical bay grants DM+1 to all Medic checks made
within it.
Medical bays consume four tons and cost MCr2, which
will support the treatment of five patients so long as
one medic or autodoc (see Central Supply Catalogue,
page 81) is present. It requires 1 Power.
Multiple medical bays can be combined into one
larger facility.

MULTI-ENVIRONMENT SPACE

The environment of this designated area can be
modified to a wide range of conditions including salt
water, extreme temperatures or unusual atmospheres,
all to suit the needs of the occupant, usually an alien,
animal or exotic plant.
One ton of environmental equipment is needed
for every 20 tons of space designated as multienvironment, at a cost of MCr0.5 per ton of equipment.
Each ton of environmental equipment requires 1 Power.

