PSIONICS

In Traveller, a few humans (and aliens) have developed
potent psionic abilities such as telepathy, telekinesis
and even teleportation. Learning to properly control
psionics is never easy and their use cannot always be
relied upon but they are guaranteed to provide their
practitioners with a dangerous edge simply not possible
for normal humans.

THE IMPERIUM: PSIONICS AND THE LAW
In the Charted Space universe, learning to
harness psionics is a difficult process, made
harder by the Third Imperium’s ban on psionics.
The Psionics Institutes that study mental powers
have gone underground, following a disastrous
attempt to guide human development centuries
ago. In other civilisations, such as the Zhodani
Consulate, psionics are a fully accepted part of
the human condition.

INSTITUTE TESTING

A Traveller who wishes to develop psionic abilities
requires training. In settings where psionics are
uncommon or illegal, the Traveller must find a teacher,
normally an underground Psionics Institute. Finding
such an instructor can be an adventure in itself.
Most teachers will charge at least Cr5000 to test the
Traveller’s abilities. Testing takes two weeks.
The first step is testing a Traveller’s PSI, which
is determined as described before (2D minus the
number of terms served). If the Traveller has any PSI
remaining, they can be trained.
Training requires four months of work and costs
Cr100000. As part of training, the Traveller may attempt
to learn any of the common psionic talents on the
Psionic Training table by making a PSI check. They
may attempt the talents in any order but suffer DM–1
per check attempted. If a Traveller learns a talent, they
gain it at skill level 0.

TELEPATHIC POTENTIAL

PSIONIC STRENGTH

Psionics are powered by the Psionic Strength
(PSI) characteristic. This characteristic cannot be
rolled during Traveller creation without the referee’s
permission and even then it is quite rare. To determine
a Traveller’s PSI, roll 2D and subtract the number of
terms served by the Traveller in all careers thus far
(PSI diminishes over time unless actively used). For
example, a 38 year old Traveller (five terms served)
would roll 2D–5 to determine their PSI. A Traveller with
PSI 0 has no potential for psionic talents.
Using a psionic power costs a number of PSI points,
temporarily reducing the Traveller’s total. As the
characteristic DM for all psionic skill checks is determined
by the Travellers’ current PSI total, it gets harder and
harder to use powers as the Traveller’s PSI declines.

RECOVERING PSI

Expended PSI points are recovered at the rate of one
point per hour, beginning three hours after the Traveller
last used a psionic talent.

228

Telepaths are by far the most common among those
with psionic potential. If a Traveller chooses Telepathy
as their first talent, it will be gained automatically with
no need to roll on the Psionic Training table.

Psionic Training
Talent

Telepathy
Clairvoyance
Telekinesis
Awareness
Teleportation
Per previous talent acquisition check

Learning DM
+4
+3
+2
+1
+0
-1

For example, Luka has just determined that she
has PSI 9. She now rolls to determine talents. She
can select powers in any order, so she begins with
telekinesis. She roll 2D+1 (her PSI DM), +2 (the
Telekinesis learning DM) but unfortunately, the dice roll
is a 3 for a total of 6 – less than the number she needs,
so she does not gain telekinesis.

