Next, she tries telepathy. She rolls 2D+1 (her PSI
DM), +4 (the Telepathy learning DM) and –1 (one
previous talent learning check) and gets a total of 10.
Luka gains Telepathy 0.

PSIONIC TALENTS

There are several psionic talents, each of which is
controlled by a different skill. Within each talent are
several powers, all of which may be used by a Traveller
trained in the talent. The most common talents are:
Telepathy: Reading minds & communicating
Clairvoyance: Perceiving at a distance
Telekinesis: Mind over matter
Awareness: Control over one’s own mind and body
Teleportation: Moving from one point to another instantly

USING PSIONIC POWERS

To activate a power, the Traveller must make a skill
check using the appropriate skill (Telepathy, Telekinesis
and so on), adding their PSI DM, along with any other
appropriate DMs. They must also spend the listed
number of PSI points if they succeed or one point if
they fail. If this cost brings them below zero PSI, then
any excess points are applied as damage. A Traveller
with no PSI points cannot attempt to activate a power.
Most powers can be used at a distance and have a
Reach characteristic. This is the distance, using the
Psionic Range table, at which the power can normally be
used. However, a strong psion can increase the range at
which they use powers with greater mental effort.
The Reach of a power can be increased by one Range
Band if twice the PSI Cost is paid and increased by two
Range Bands if the PSI Cost is multiplied by four.

USING THE PSION CAREER

A Traveller may only attempt to enter the
Psion career with the permission of the referee
normally because of the single Life Event (see
page 46) that allows it.
Unlike other careers, a Psion takes skills from
the appropriate Specialist table instead of the
Service Skills table during basic training.
The Psion must still roll to acquire talents when
they determine their PSI. When rolling on the
Service Skills table, if the Psion gains the skill
for a talent they do not yet possess, they may
attempt another roll to learn that talent.
The assignments for Psions are considered to
be separate careers and a Traveller must roll for
qualification as normal if they choose to change
assignment during their career.

Psionic Range
Range Band

Personal
Close
Short
Medium
Long
Very Long
Distant
Very Distant
Continental
Planetary

Distance to Target

Less than one metre
1 to 5 metres
6 to 10 metres
11 to 50 metres
51 metres to 250 metres
251 metres to 500 metres
501 metres to 5 kilometres
6 kilometres to 500 kilometres
501 to 5,000 kilometres
5,001 to 50,000 kilometres


psionics

For example, a psionic Traveller could read the mind of
a target at Long range using Read Surface Thoughts
for 2 PSI points normally, or boost it to Very Long range
for 4 PSI points, or even Distant for 8 PSI points.

229

