Suggestion

The telepath implants a thought, idea or command
into the mind of another, who interprets it as their own.
Unless the suggestion is plainly harmful the subject
will follow the command or enact upon the idea. If the
Effect of the Telepathy check is 6 or more, even suicidal
suggestions will be followed.

CLAIRVOYANCE

Clairvoyance is a talent that allows a person to sense
events at some location displaced from the viewer.
There are several levels of clairvoyant ability.

Check: Very Difficult (12+) Telepathy check (1D x 10
seconds, PSI)
Reach: Short
PSI Cost: 3

Clairvoyance powers allow eavesdropping activities
as well as spying and detection-free exploration of
situations. While telepathic life detection will determine
the presence of living minds in a closed room, for
example, sense will determine if a room is occupied or
empty. Clairvoyant activity cannot be sensed by others,
including by other psionic talented individuals.

Probe

Sense

The application of great psionic strength will enable a
telepath to delve deep into the mind of a subject and
to then read their innermost thoughts. Questioning can
be used in the procedure to force the subject to divulge
specific information. The telepath can easily determine
deliberate untruths told (thought) by the subject.
Probe cannot be used against a shielded mind. Again,
the Effect of the check determines the clarity of the
telepath’s perceptions.
Check: Very Difficult (12+) Telepathy check (1D
minutes, PSI)
Reach: Close
PSI Cost: 4

Assault

The basic power to sense things at some point in
the distance. A Traveller will become aware of the
most rudimentary characteristics of a location when
applying this ability. For example, the referee will
give a basic description, without detail: ‘a room,
containing four dogs’ or ‘an open plain with a tree and
no animals or men present’. The clairvoyant Traveller
must state the range at which they are applying the
power and will generally sense the most interesting or
important feature at that range. The Effect of the check
determines the level of accuracy and clarity.
Check: Routine (6+) Clairvoyance check (1D x 10
seconds, PSI)
Reach: Very Distant
PSI Cost: 1

Violence may be dealt by a telepath. Against
an unshielded mind, the result is automatic
unconsciousness and possible death. Against a shielded
mind, an instant duel ensues. An unshielded mind,
when assaulted telepathically, is rendered unconscious
immediately and causes Effect x 3 damage.
When a shielded mind is assaulted, the two telepaths
make opposed Telepathy checks. If the attacker wins,
the victim suffers damage.

Shield

psionics

Check: Formidable (14+) Telepathy check (1D
seconds, PSI)
Reach: Short
PSI Cost: 8

All telepathically enabled Travellers learn how to
create a mental shield, which protects the mind against
unwanted telepathic interference. Such a shield is
automatically in force at all times and requires no PSI
expenditure to maintain but can be lowered to allow
telepathic contact or use of telepathic powers.


231

