Microkinesis

This more challenging form of telekinesis allows for fine
manipulation of very small or even microscopic objects.
A telekinetic can use this power to pick locks, perform
microsurgery, sabotage a computer system and so forth.
Check: Difficult (10+) Telekinesis check (1D x 10
seconds, PSI)
Reach: Close
PSI Cost: 3

Pyrokinesis

By exciting the substance of an object, the Traveller
can raise its temperature, possibly even causing it to
burst into flames.

Telekinesis Effect
0–4
5–8
9+

Target…

becomes warmer but is
undamaged.
is burnt, suffering 1D damage.
suffers 2D damage and may
burst into flame if flammable.

Check: Routine (6+) Telekinesis check (1D x 10
seconds, PSI)
Reach: Short
PSI Cost: 3

AWARENESS

Awareness is the psionic talent that allows fine
control of one’s own body. Awareness powers never
have Reach – they are used only on the Traveller
themselves. Awareness is not capable of affecting
others and may never be used for healing or enhancing
other Travellers.

Suspended Animation

Check: Average (8+) Awareness check (1D
minutes, PSI)
PSI Cost: 3

PSI points may be converted to STR points on a
temporary basis. The Traveller makes the commitment,
reduces their available PSI by a specified number of
points and increases their STR characteristic by the
same amount. STR reaches its new level immediately,
remains at that peak for number of minutes equal to the
Effect of the Awareness check x 10 and then declines
at the rate of one point per minute until the Traveller’s
normal STR is reached.
Check: Average (8+) Awareness check (1D
seconds, PSI)
PSI Cost: STR increase

Enhanced Endurance

PSI points may be converted to END points on a
temporary basis. The Traveller makes the commitment,
reduces their available PSI by a specified number of
points and increases their END characteristic by the
same amount. END reaches its new level immediately,
remains at that peak for number of minutes equal to the
Effect of the Awareness check x 10 and then declines
at the rate of one point per minute until the Traveller’s
normal END is reached.
Check: Average (8+) Awareness check (1D
seconds, PSI)
PSI Cost: END increase

Fortitude

By channelling psychic energy to their skeletal structure
and boosting their healing rate, the Traveller can
enhance their ability to absorb damage. Fortitude lasts a
number of rounds equal to the Effect of the Awareness
check and provides Protection equal to the number of
PSI points expended. Fortitude stacks with worn armour.
Check: Difficult (10+) Awareness check (1D
seconds, PSI)
PSI Cost: Amount of Armour

Inspiration

Through both mental and physical activities, psionic
enhancement can lead to flashes of inspiration,
dexterous fine-tuning and momentarily toughened
physique. Inspiration adds DM+2 to any one check the
Traveller attempts within the next minute.

psionics

Personal body activity may be suspended for varying
periods of time. A Traveller with awareness may enter
a suspended animation state (similar to cold sleep
but without the intrinsic danger of death) by willing
themselves into it. Such a state continues for seven
days, without need for food or water and with minimal
air needs. The Traveller could effectively travel in a cold
sleep berth, without actually undergoing cold sleep and
its dangers. Suspended animation may be stopped
at any time, provided external stimulus is given to
awaken the sleeper (such as a friend nudging them or
a mechanical alarm).

Enhanced Strength

Check: Average (8+) Awareness check (1D
seconds, PSI)
PSI Cost: 1

233

