
The size of the Starport provides a bonus to finding
a supplier.
Class A: DM+6
Class B: DM+4
Class C: DM+2

DETERMINE GOODS AVAILABLE

MAKING A LIVING

Speculative trading can be harsh to the
newcomer, especially if they are unskilled, and
even the most experienced broker can be caught
by a bad trade and lose tens of thousands of
Credits – or more.
It may occur to some Travellers to ask how can
the big shipping corporations even survive, let
alone make a profit, if they are doing the same
risky speculative trading as everyone else. The
answer is simple.

Availability is influenced by the size of the market.
On Population 3– apply DM–3 to the roll for quantity.
This can result in a number of zero or less, reflecting
no availability of even common goods. Conversely,
Population 9+ worlds have vast economies and grant
DM+3 on the roll for lot quantities.

Just as in our world, the big boys follow
different rules to the little guy. A big, interstellar
corporation not only has far larger ships that
can carry far more cargo but also government
contracts, the ability to bribe their way ahead of
small competitors, contacts among suppliers, tax
breaks and many other ploys that keep them one
step ahead.

LOCAL BROKERS

A trader can hire a local broker to help find
goods and negotiate a deal. Local brokers will
have a Broker skill of 2D/3 and will normally
charge a flat fee of 10% of the gross proceeds
of a transaction. Local brokers gain DM+2 on
negotiations, since their local knowledge helps
them find the best deal and avoid the pitfalls of
dealing with outsiders.

trade

Goods are divided into two categories; Common and
Trade Goods. Common Goods can be purchased on
any world. Trade Goods can usually only be found on a
world with a matching Trade code. The amount of each
type of goods available is limited – the tons column on
the Trade Goods table determines how many tons of a
given type of goods are available for purchase.

A supplier will have all Common Goods available, the
Trade Goods that match the world’s Trade codes and
a quantity of randomly determined goods equal to the

242

For illegal goods, a local broker or fixer will
have a Streetwise skill of 2D/3 and gain DM+2
on negotiations but charge 20% of the gross
proceeds, possibly higher for highly illegal or
dangerous cargos. If the roll to determine the
fixer’s skill is a natural 2, they are an informer,
government agent or double-crosser. The referee
should determine resulting events, which should
remind the Travellers why it is best to tread
carefully when dealing in illegal goods.

They don’t.

Population code of the world. Roll on the Trade Goods
table to randomly determine the goods available, rerolling results 61–65 unless dealing with a black market
supplier. If you roll the same type of goods multiple
times, then the supplier has extra amounts of those
goods available.
Some goods are illegal and can be purchased only
through a black market supplier. A black market
supplier has whatever illegal goods match world’s
Trade codes, as well as any randomly rolled illegal
goods. Roll 1D on the Trade Goods table and use ‘6’
as the leading digit. Illegal goods can include illegal
exotics, which may not be strictly illegal but have
‘questionable’ providence.
For example, the Travellers have contacted a
supplier on an Industrial world. Consulting the Trade
Goods table, the supplier has the following goods
available: Common Electronics, Common Machine
Parts, Common Manufactured Goods, Common Raw
Materials, Common Vehicles, Common Ore, Advanced

