W

ORLD
AND UNIVERSE CREATION

A universe needs to be created for Travellers to explore
and find adventure. Many referees use published
universes to save themselves a great deal of time, such
as Charted Space or 2300AD.

would normally be available to them. The referee
may elect to omit some information and only allow it
to be inserted after the Travellers have determined it
for themselves.

However, some referees will prefer to create their own
universes. This chapter will show you how.

World Occurrence: There is a basic one-half chance
that one world (and its attendant stellar system) will be
in a hex on a subsector or sector map. Systematically
check each hex, throwing 1D and marking the hex with
a circle if the result is a 4, 5 or 6. This indicates that a
world of note or interest is present; otherwise, leave the
hex blank.

SECTORS AND SUBSECTORS

A universe is mapped in convenient segments, called
subsectors. Each subsector is an area of hexagonal
cells measuring eight hexes by 10 hexes. Since the
recommended scale is one parsec (equal to 3.26
light years) per hex, the subsector covers an area 10
parsecs by eight parsecs.
Sixteen subsectors (arranged in four rows of four
subsectors each) form a sector, about the largest size
practical for a continuing Traveller campaign.
Mapping subsectors consists of two sequences: star
mapping and world design. Star mapping examines
each hexagon in the subsector grid and determines
if there is a star system present. It also determines
the presence or absence of starports, bases and fuel
for starships. All of this information is coded onto the
subsector hexes and serves as a guide to the referee
and Travellers during interstellar travel. World design
examines the single most important world in each
system and determines basic characteristics for it. This
information is retained for use during adventures on the
world’s surface.
Note that not all universes will require the creation of a
subsector or sector. Indeed, entire campaigns can be
set in just one star system or on a single world, or even
within a single city.

STAR MAPPING

In order to create a subsector, the referee uses
a blank subsector map and dice to determine the
presence of systems, starports and bases. Reading
World Profiles on page 248 shows the coding and
placement of information about worlds within a
subsector. This format should be used to allow
Travellers and referees to note information that

246

The referee may elect to alter the normal chances of
worlds, making them more frequent or less frequent
to correspond to specific regions of the galaxy. A 50%
density (no DM) is appropriate for the most areas. Apply
DM-2 for rift (all but empty) sectors, DM-1 for sparse
sectors and DM+1 for densely populated sectors.
Starport Type: Many worlds have starports, their
presence being essential to interstellar trade and
commerce. See Starports, page 257.
Bases: Stellar systems may have bases for military
forces, the navy, the scouts or other arms of interstellar
government. See Bases, page 259.
Bases will also help determine political boundaries in
the sector. An interstellar government will place bases
along its borders to guard against aggression from
rival states or to control local systems. The presence
of multiple bases within a few parsecs might indicate a
contested border or a mighty stronghold.
Gas Giants: A star system may have one or more gas
giant planets (similar to Jupiter or Saturn). The presence
of a gas giant allows streamlined starships to refuel by
skimming; this eliminates fuel cost for the vessel and
increases profit. It also allows refuelling at systems that
do not have starports. Refuelling in this fashion requires
1D days to travel to the gas giant and commence
refuelling. Fuel gained by skimming is unrefined.
Gas giants are relatively common. Roll 10+ for a gas giant
not to be present in the system. If one is present, mark the
system hex in accordance with the world format.

