GALACTIC DIRECTIONS

North, south, east and west are insufficient
terms for referring to directions within the galaxy.
Instead, the following conventions have achieved
widespread acceptance when referring to direction:
Coreward – toward the galactic core; Rimward –
toward the rim of the galaxy; Spinward – towards
the direction the galaxy is rotating (or spinning);
Trailing – opposite the spin of the galaxy.

System Name: Each system is generally named for the
primary world within. This name should be decided upon
by the referee and placed in the hex for identification.
Travel Zones: Most worlds are assumed to be civilised
or at least amenable to Travellers and visitors. Some,
however, are caught in the throes of war, plagued by
disease or simply not ready for interstellar visitors.
Such worlds are classified by Travel Zones to denote
such status. In most cases, the referee should indicate
Travel Zones based on the information available. Two
such zone types exist; Amber and Red.
Amber Zones indicate that Travellers should exercise
caution when visiting such worlds. The Amber
code may mean that the citizens of the world are
xenophobic, that the political situation is chaotic or that
some other danger exists within the system.

Red Zones usually indicate that a major danger exists
within the system. This danger may be disease and the
world is quarantined. The system may be involved in
a war and surface or space battles may be probable.
Red Zones are also used to show a government edict
prohibiting entry to the system or world. This may be to
protect a local civilisation that is still developing and not
yet ready for interstellar contacts or to protect valuable
resources until the government can mine them.
Polities: Worlds may be independent or part of a larger
polity that spans a system or more. Polities range from
loose confederations of a few worlds with common
trade or defence policies or cultural links, to vast star
empires containing thousands of systems and trillions
of citizens. Polity borders should be drawn on the map.
Note that larger polities will usually have sub-domains,
which could also be marked.
Communications Routes: Within the subsector, local
governments will have established communications
routes connecting some (but not all) worlds. These
routes serve as a conduit for messages between
businesses and governments, as well as people.
They also serve as the basic routes that liners and
large freighters travel. The referee should examine
the subsector map and connect key worlds with
communications routes. If the subsector is an isolated
community, the routes might not leave the map; if it
is part of a larger confederation or empire, the routes
will probably leave the edges to join with other parts
of the sector. Use starports as guides when drawing
communication routes – in general, the best routes are
the shortest connections between Class A starports and
naval bases.

universe creation

247

