36
41
42
43

44

45
46
51

52

53
54

55

61


62

63

64

65
66

Unusual Customs: Nobility – those of high social
standing have a strange custom associated with
them; perhaps nobles are blinded, must live in
gilded cages or only serve for a single year before
being exiled.
Unusual Customs: Sex – the culture has an
unusual attitude towards intercourse and
reproduction. Perhaps cloning is used instead or
sex is used to seal commercial deals.
Unusual Customs: Eating – food and drink
occupies an unusual place in the culture. Perhaps
eating is a private affair or banquets and formal
dinners are seen as the highest form of politeness.
Unusual Customs: Travel – Travellers may be
distrusted or feted, or perhaps the culture frowns
on those who leave their homes.
Unusual Custom: Conspiracy – something strange
is going on. The government is being subverted
by another group or agency.

LAW LEVEL

The Law Level of a planet represents the relative force
of law extant on the world. A high Law Level indicates
that visitors to the world will have their activities curtailed.
Law Level determines two things in particular – what it
is illegal for Travellers to possess on the world and the
likelihood the Travellers will run afoul of the law.
Law Level is determined by rolling 2D–7 and adding the
Government code.

BANNED GOODS

Different governments ban different goods. A Traveller
might be able to carry their laser rifle slung over their
shoulder on one world and be arrested for carrying a
simple knife on the next planet over. An alien might enjoy
full rights on one world and be treated as an animal on
another. Banned goods are important for smuggling.
As far as Travellers are concerned, the most common
restriction a government imposes is on the possession
of weapons and this is reflected on the Law Level table.
However, the referee might consider the stance of a
government for all of the following:
Weapons: A government that bans weapons begins
with restricting weapons of terror and mass destruction,
then moves onto personal weapons. Governments
will also often ban armour, with a view that an overly
militarised appearance simply attracts trouble.

universe creation

56

Nexus – members of many different cultures and
species visit here.
Tourist Attraction – some aspect of the culture or the
planet draws visitors from all over civilised space.
Violent – physical conflict is common, taking the
form of duels, brawls or other contests. Trial by
combat is a part of their judicial system.
Peaceful – physical conflict is almost unheardof. The culture produces few soldiers and
diplomacy reigns supreme. Forceful Travellers
will be ostracised.
Obsessed – everyone is obsessed with or
addicted to a substance, personality, act or
item. This monomania pervades every aspect of
the culture.
Fashion – fine clothing and decoration are
considered vitally important in the culture.
Underdressed Travellers have no standing here.
At war – the culture is at war, either with
another planet or polity, or is troubled by
terrorists or rebels.
Unusual Custom: Offworlders – space travellers
hold a unique position in the culture’s mythology
or beliefs and travellers will be expected to live up
to these myths.
Unusual Custom: Starport – the planet’s starport
is more than a commercial centre; it might be a
religious temple or be seen as highly controversial
and surrounded by protestors.
Unusual Custom: Media – news agencies and
telecommunications channels are especially strange
here. Getting accurate information may be difficult.
Unusual Customs: Technology – the culture
interacts with technology in an unusual way.
Telecommunications might be banned, robots
might have civil rights or cyborgs might be property.
Unusual Customs: Lifecycle – there might be a
mandatory age of termination or anagathics might
be widely used. Family units might be different,
with children being raised by the state or banned
in favour of cloning.
Unusual Customs: Social Standings – the culture
has a distinct caste system. Travellers of a low
social standing who do not behave appropriately
will face punishment.
Unusual Customs: Trade – the culture has an odd
attitude towards some aspect of commerce, which
may interfere with trade at the spaceport. For
example, merchants might expect a gift as part
of a deal or some goods may only be handled by
certain families.

255

