T

Quality: This determines both the condition of the port
itself and the level of competence of the staff. Quality
may vary – it is possible to find a Class D port run by
expert engineers or a Class A that has succumbed
to decay. Some worlds have entirely inappropriate
starports; a world that was once a centre of commerce
but has now been bypassed by new trade routes, might
have a cavernous port capable of handling thousands
of freighters now almost abandoned.
A frontier installation is just a bare spot of bedrock,
marked with a beacon, and is a starport in the most
technical sense only.
Berthing Cost: This is the price paid by any ship that
wants to land or dock at the starport and is due weekly.
Prices can vary wildly between starports but tend to
remain stable at each (roll once for each starport and
record it for future reference).
Fuel: This refers to the fuel available for purchase –
either refined or unrefined. Refined fuel costs Cr500 per
ton; unrefined fuel costs Cr100 per ton but is risky to
use when jumping. Bases have their own fuel-refining
ability – see Bases on page 259.
Facilities: These are the starport’s repair and
construction ability. A shipyard allows for the construction
of new vessels. A shipyard capable of building all types
of ships can construct small craft (less than 100 tons),
spacecraft (100 to 5,000 tons) and capital ships (more
than 5,000 tons). However only a Class A starport can
construct jump-capable spacecraft.
Repair facilities allow a damaged ship to be repaired and
have plenty of spare parts for most common systems.

universe creation

Limited repair facilities can only fix Hull damage.

258

Use the following modifiers when determining whether
a highport is present: DM+1 if TL9–11, DM+2 if TL 12+,
DM+1 if Population 9+, DM–1 if Population 6–

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

CHARTED SPACE: STARPORTS AND THE LAW
Technically, a starport is Imperial territory
and not under the jurisdiction of the planetary
government. The local government may share in
the construction costs, running costs and profits
of the starport but the port is extraterritorial and
run by an Imperium-appointed governor. This
means that Travellers can carry locally illegal
goods onto a planet so long as they do not leave
the starport. It also means that criminals and
refugees often claim sanctuary in a starport and
that a starport’s Tech Level may be considerably
higher than that of the rest of the planet.
Starports operate according to Imperial Law
(equivalent to Law Level 1 for most items and
forbidding all use of psionics).
However, Travellers should be aware that not
every world honours this approach and paranoid
governments have been known to forcibly board
and inspect ships to root out what they see as
unpleasant influences.

TECH LEVEL

The Tech Level of the planet is determined by rolling 1D
and adding DMs from the Tech Level table.
The Tech Level measures the average technology
presence on the planet and gives an idea of local
production and repair capability. Trade with offworlders
may bring in advanced technology; on average, a rich
individual can afford technology two or more levels
higher than the planetary average. The government
may also have access to higher-technology items.

Use the following modifiers when determining whether
a corsair base is present: DM+2 if Law Level 0, DM–2 if
Law Level 2+.

A planet’s technology may be one or more levels
higher or lower in a particular field, such as Medicine,
Communications, Weaponry, Ship Construction, Power
Generation, Computers and so forth.

Bases: This lists what sort of bases may be present.
Roll 2D for each base type listed; for more details, see
Bases on page 259.

COMMUNICATIONS


If the planet is below Tech Level 3, then there will be
no telecommunication system whatsoever except for
whatever facilities the starport offers. If it is between
TL4 and TL6, then it has radio and telephone
communications between major cities at least but

R

