EXPLORE THE EPIC STORY LINES OF TRAVELLER!
THE PIRATES OF DRINAX

DEEPNIGHT REVELATION

A truly massive Traveller sandbox, the Pirates of Drinax is packed
with enough adventures and source material to keep even the most
dedicated group going for years!

A grand 20 year campaign into deep space, commanding the
exploration cruiser Deepnight Revelation.

In the Pirates of Drinax, the Travellers play a band of adventurers
entrusted by the King of Drinax with a letter of marque, permitting
them to prey on ‘illegal’ trade within the borders of the vanished
kingdom. The King hopes this piracy will give him the leverage
he needs to restore Drinax to its former glory, and intends for the
Travellers to win back all the planets lost over the last two centuries
– but the King’s plans are just the starting point for this campaign.
Once the Travellers have their letter of marque and ship, it’s up to
them what to do next. Will they stay loyal to their patron and help
restore Drinax? Will they turn rogue and create their own kingdom?
Will they be heroes or monsters, pirates or privateers? Will they
make their fortune amid the pitiless stars, or will the cold depths of
the Trojan Reach be their grave?

Outfitted for the most stupendous mission in human history, a
one-ship expedition will travel along the Great Rift to the edge of
the Spiral Arm. Deepnight Revelation will explore the uncharted
systems along its path; contact unknown species and weather
unpredictable dangers.
There is a place for any Traveller aboard Deepnight Revelation;
scientists and explorers, pilots and engineers, diplomats and
rogues. There are mysteries to be unravelled, enemies to battle, and
situations that require… unconventional… talents. The Travellers
can take on any role they please, from humble research assistants to
the mission’s commanders. The decisions they make will shape the
course of the expedition – and perhaps the history of entire species.
Deepnight Revelation. A voyage beyond everything we know.

AND MANY MORE ADVENTURES IN CHARTED SPACE
There is also a growing number of standalone adventures set in many regions of the Charted Space universe that can be dropped into the
middle of the published epic campaigns to extend them, or be used in campaigns of your own creation. From rescuing slaves to saving
underwater cities, from investigating a vicious murder to recovering a spacecraft atop an active volcano, Traveller has an adventure that
suits every style of play!

264


WELCOME TO THE FAR FUTURE

