If the Traveller needs to spend more than this amount,
they may do so by making a WLT check, modified by
DM-1 per 5,000 Credits spent. If the check succeeds,
the Traveller can make the purchase. If the check is
failed, permanently reduce WLT by -1 and try again, or
not make the purchase and avoid the reduction.
At the end of each month, the Referee should adjust
a Traveller’s WLT characteristic up or down if their
financial circumstances have changed greatly. In
addition, it is suggested that amounts (both earned
and spent) measured in millions of Credits (MCr) are
tracked accurately. WLT should be used for personal
items and purchases alone.

LUCK (LCK)
Luck represents a Traveller’s general good and bad
fortunes, and governs situations that are essentially
beyond a Traveller’s control. It is useful in highly
cinematic games, allowing Travellers a get-out if
things go wrong, and can be used to give ‘plucky
but inexperienced young hero’ type Travellers
an advantage. This is not always desirable – the
majority of Traveller games are set in a cold, uncaring
universe ruled by the laws of science rather than
whimsy – but Referees running some types of game
will find LCK useful.

LCK can be used to determine success/failure or
see who is affected by a random event. A Traveller’s
chance of succeeding in a task through blind luck
should never be better than their chance when using
skills and good planning. However, when all else fails
and the Traveller must simply leap into the dark, LCK
can be used to determine whether he lands on his feet
or faceplants into a wall.

LCK can be used to see what happens to which
Traveller when no other factors apply. For example, if
one Traveller selected at random is to be the victim of a
bad event, everyone can make an opposed LCK check
and the lowest score will be the victim.
Some events will instead affect every Traveller failing
a LCK check. This might occur when a random event
takes place, such as when a group of Travellers are
caught in the open during a meteor shower or they
open unmarked ration tins.

ALTERING CHANCES OF SUCCESS
If a Traveller really needs to succeed in a skill or
characteristic check, they may expend LCK on a
temporary basis. Each point of LCK spent translates
into DM+1 to the check. Likewise, each LCK point
expended can be used as a negative DM to a check
made against them; a Traveller can use LCK to
make an enemy miss an otherwise easy shot. All
LCK points expended in this way are regained at the
end of an adventure.

SURVIVING A DISASTER
A highly cinematic game might use LCK as a way of
keeping the Travellers alive through their adventures.
This is an optional use of an optional characteristic, and
the Referee is advised to consider this style of game
carefully; it is likely to be a lot less realistic than the
typical ‘ordinary joes in space’ style of Traveller game.
If this rule is in use, when a Traveller suffers some
catastrophic event the Referee may grant the
Traveller a chance to survive through blind luck by
a Very Difficult (12+) check, with no characteristic
DMs used. Instead, the chances of survival can be
increased by permanently expending points from the
Traveller’s LCK characteristic.
A DM equal to the number of LCK points expended
can be applied. This means a very significant number
of points must be ‘burned’ in order to give a good
chance of survival. Once these points are expended,
they are gone for good and the Traveller’s LCK score is
reduced, perhaps increasing the number of bad things
that happen to them later on.
If the LCK check is successful, the Traveller somehow
survives. Maybe their crampons caught the ice surface
and slowed their fall into the crevasse enough that
they are hurt and stuck at the bottom of a crevasse
rather than dead, or maybe they snag something on

Characteristics

LCK is determined by a straight 2D roll and cannot be
permanently increased or decreased in the manner of a
Travellers’ other characteristics. Only major events can
change a Travellers’ LCK; this is at the discretion of the
Referee, who must decide what factors may influence
LCK. In some campaigns it may be desirable to allow
Travellers to collect charms or artefacts that improve
their fortunes, although this should not be overdone
(and they may not have the effect the Travellers
expect). Karma can also play a part; the Referee might
decide that good or bad deeds are worth a little good
fortune in the future. Luck can also be used as a plot
guide in some campaigns, with ‘correct’ actions leading
to improved LCK and bad deeds adversely affecting the
Travellers’ fortunes.

RANDOM SITUATIONS

5

