T

the way down. Maybe the plasma gun misfired, or the
bullet somehow missed every vital organ. However it
happens, the Traveller’s LCK is permanently reduced
by the amount of points expended. If LCK reaches 0
then every random bad event that can possibly happen
will befall the Traveller and their life may not be worth
living. The Referee should feel free to torment the
unlucky individual as much as they please.
Note that LCK cannot be used to affect someone else
in this manner. If a Traveller fails their LCK check, their
friends cannot try to get lucky on their behalf.
If this option is used, it may be desirable to allow
Travellers to regain their LCK. This is not a matter of
spending money; instead the Traveller will have to
undertake good works, visit remote temples to ask the
gods why they survived and generally go out of their
way in an adventure-material-creating sort of way. Even
then regaining LCK should be a difficult business.

EXAMPLES OF USING LUCK
The Travellers are caught in a meteorite shower and
risk being struck. This is essentially a random event,
since the meteorites move so fast it is beyond the
means of the Travellers to avoid them. Normally a
straight 2D roll might be used to see if any given
Traveller is hit but if LCK is in use, this roll can be
modified by the Travellers’ LCK DM.
Not being hit by meteorites: Average (8+) LCK
Check (1 minute).

Characteristics

On another occasion, the Travellers disturb an angry
creature. It is in the middle of them and the choice of
who to bite is essentially random. All the Travellers
might be asked to make an opposed Average (8+) LCK
check, with the one with the lowest Effect getting bitten.

6

MORALE (MRL)

The Morale (MRL) characteristic represents a mix of
courage, motivation, determination and sense of ethics.
It functions in a similar manner to END, although in
a psychological manner rather than physical. MRL is
useful in games with a lot of combat but can also be
applied to many other situations. It provides a way to
adjudicate situations where the Traveller insists they
will do the most effective thing regardless of tedium,
discomfort and distractions… or hostile gunfire.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

MRL is determined, like other characteristics, by rolling
2D. It is increased by +1 for every successful term the
Traveller has completed in a military service (e.g. army,
navy or marine) or every two successful terms they
completed in a disciplined but non-military service (e.g.
scout, merchant or agent).
MRL checks are used in combat or when trying to
overcome fear-inducing situations but can have other
applications. For example, if a Traveller insists that
they are going to spend 10 hours a day working on
a boring project, MRL can be used to determine if
they stick at it. MRL checks should not be used in
place of good roleplaying but can be a useful tool
for a Referee whose Travellers insist on undertaking
unrealistic actions.

MORALE CHECKS

A Morale check is called for when a significant obstacle
or setback is encountered. This may or may not be
combat related; realising that the Travellers will have
to traverse right around the mountain before even
beginning to climb might be disheartening enough to
make a group of climbers quit.
Typically, the Referee will call for a MRL check when a
group of combatants takes significant casualties (1020% of its numbers), or when they see allies fleeing.
A MRL check may also be called for when an
individual is wounded in combat or facing a
particularly fearsome foe.
A MRL check might also be required if a Traveller is
unexpectedly hurt or encounters unanticipated danger.
For example, if a Traveller is suddenly struck by an
unexpected blow, they may flinch rather than reacting
boldly. Similarly, when a sniper’s bullet narrowly misses
their head, a Traveller might dive for cover rather than
finishing what they are doing.
The MRL of a group can be averaged from the values
of everyone involved or, for large-scale military units,
assigned according to the experience and training of
the personnel involved. As a rule, group Morale will
affect the whole group – if everyone else runs away,
a high-Morale individual will normally find it prudent
to do likewise. He may decide to stay and fight alone,
however, in which case an individual MRL check (at
his own level, not that of the group) can be used at
the Referee’s discretion.

R

