To remain resolute in the face of modest threat or a
daunting task: Routine (6+) MRL check
If the MRL check is failed, the Traveller or group will
become ‘shaken’ and seek cover and stay there, or
begin to retreat and continue to do so until rallied. If the
MRL check is made to stick at a daunting task, a failure
may indicate refusal or a ‘freeze’ where the Travellers
cannot make any progress until their determination is
restored or obstacles are removed.
A MRL check with an Effect of -6 or worse usually
results in inexplicable panic and rout. Conversely,
an Effect of 6+ indicates stern resolve or gung-ho
enthusiasm. If so, the Referee may decide to impose
extra beneficial results, such as a Boon on all future
MRL checks (until one is failed) or a positive DM to
melee combat attacks. Very good and very bad MRL
checks can both result in individuals going berserk.
This is not always a good thing.
A shaken group or Traveller will remain so until some
reason to regain confidence presents itself. That
might be a period without danger or could be due to
the actions of another Traveller deliberately trying to
rally the group. Once the Referee feels an opportunity
to pull themselves together has presented itself, the
group or Traveller can make a new MRL check to
regain their confidence.

USING MORALE
Mike the Marine is leading a mob of local militia in a
battle against low-tech enemies. As a line of enemy
cavalry begins to advance against them, the militia start
to edge back. Hoping to forestall a retreat, Mike shouts
some inspiring words and steps to the front of the
line. The Referee decides this is a reasonable action
despite the bullets cracking past Mike’s ears; Mike is an
experienced mercenary and has shown considerable
personal courage in the past, so the Referee does not
ask for a Morale check on his part.

Circumstance

Base Difficulty

First injury received in a fight Routine (6+)
Character receives
significant injury

Average (8+)

Casualties taken

Average (8+)

Serious casualties (30%)

Difficult (10+)

Massive casualties (60%)

Very Difficult (12+)

Unusual danger

One level harder

Incredible danger

Two levels harder

Excessive tedium

One level harder

Unbelievable tedium

Two levels harder

Good odds/big reward

1–2 levels easier

Trusted leader present

1 level easier

Inspiring leader present

2 levels easier

The militia nervously stay in position as the cavalry
approaches but their rifle fire is insufficient to break the
charge. As the lance points come down Mike shouts
to the militia that their best chance of survival is to
stay together. The Referee makes a MRL check for
the militiamen and it fails. Despite Mike’s advice, the
militia begin to flee. Mike stands his ground alone to
shame the militiamen into staying in their position. The
Referee thinks this is rather unwise and is quite willing
to send a whole regiment of lancers against Mike, with
predictably fatal results.
This seems like a good time for a MRL check at quite
a high difficulty level. With his allies fleeing and certain
death hurtling at him in the form of 700 lance points,
this is a tough MRL check and Mike fails it. Mike finds
himself in the middle of a rout, with enemy cavalry
chasing his men down and lancing the stragglers. Such
is the life of a mercenary soldier.
Meanwhile, ‘Two-Gun’ Cassandra is in a bad position.
Her handguns are out-ranged by the enemy’s rifles
and they are manoeuvring to put her in a crossfire.
The position of cover she occupies is about to
become untenable but the only way to reach safety
is a hazardous dash across open ground. Cassandra
resolves to chance it. With her is Damien, a friend with
little combat experience. Cassandra tells Damien what
she intends to do and why it is necessary. The Referee
secretly makes a MRL check for Damien and fails it.
White-faced, he agrees to make the run to safety.

Characteristics

If the situation is particularly bad, the MRL check
will be at a higher difficulty level, as shown on the
Morale Checks table. It may also be necessary to
undertake multiple MRL checks to accomplish a task
or win a battle. For example, if a group takes very
heavy casualties or is asked to do something that is
apparently suicidal, a MRL check may be necessary.
Note that MRL check failure may not be obvious; many
commanders have thought they had rallied their men
for an assault, only to have them stall within a few
paces of a half-hearted attack.

Morale Checks

7

