T

Both set off on the dash but after two steps Damien
turns and runs back into cover. Cassandra now has to
decide whether to turn back or keep going, and how to
extricate her terrified friend from danger.
On another day, Arix the Accountant is being bullied
by a local thug and decides to stand up to him. This
goes badly: Arix is punched to the ground. Arix gets
up and has another go, and gets knocked down again.
Arix decides that he will never give in and will keep
on getting up no matter how many times he is beaten.
The Referee thinks this is not in keeping with Arix’s
persona as a penpushing interstellar accountant and
asks for a MRL check. Arix passes and clambers
defiantly to his feet. Whether or not he gets knocked
down again is another matter…

SANITY (STY)
Sanity is a useful characteristic to have in games
with a supernatural element or those that involve a
lot of cybernetics. Travellers experiencing a strange
electronic world might be driven mad by it, temporarily
or permanently. Sanity could also be used to model
the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder on
Travellers who had unpleasant experiences in service
or during an adventure.

Characteristics

Sanity is determined by a straight 2D roll. A Traveller
with a STY characteristic greater than zero is
essentially sane and responsible for their actions,
although they might be a little unstable or have
hang-ups that cause unusual behaviour. Sanity can
be temporarily or permanently reduced to zero, at
which point the Traveller may develop some serious
form of mental illness.

8

STY checks may be called for upon witnessing deeply
shocking events or things disturbing to the mind of
mortals. One such is jumpspace, which is said to cause
insanity if viewed for even a short time.
If a Traveller fails a STY check under most
circumstances, he takes damage to his STY
characteristic much like physical damage affects
STR, DEX and END. Most events will cause D3
or 1D damage but some particularly horrific or
traumatic events will cause more harm. If STY
is not reduced to zero, it will return to its normal
value over time. If it does reach zero, more serious
consequences befall the Traveller.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Long-term exposure to traumatic situations will
also reduce sanity, although typically at a low rate.
Travellers engaged in trench warfare might be
required to make a STY check once per week, or
lose a point of STY.
In some cases, a STY check will be all-or-nothing. If
it is passed, the Traveller has dealt with the incident
and is not suffering any long-term harm. If the check
is failed, there will usually be a specific response. For
example, Travellers confronted with a particularly weird
creature might be required to make a STY check or flee
in terror. Some psionic talents may have similar effects.
If STY is reduced to zero on a temporary basis, the
Traveller loses the ability to act rationally. Temporary
insanity can take the form of panic or catatonia, or
perhaps utter confusion leading to an inability to act
coherently. It may also manifest as violence, possibly
against the wrong recipient. The form of temporary
insanity will usually be dictated by the nature of the
insanity-causing event.

R

