Some events and situations can result in a permanent
loss of STY. If STY is reduced to zero on a permanent
basis, the Traveller has become seriously ill. Mental
illness is a sensitive issue and one which is badly
misunderstood by many people, so the use of longterm mental disorders in a game is a theme that should
be approached with care.
Even relatively minor issues such as a modest level
of paranoia or obsessions about particular actions
or objects can make life very difficult for the sufferer,
but it is still possible (and quite possibly enlightening)
to play a Traveller battling such problems. More
serious mental illness will tend to be debilitating for
Travellers and requires specialist treatment. This
is a very difficult matter to incorporate into a game,
especially since games are intended to be fun. It is
recommended that an insane Traveller takes some
time, gets professional help ‘off-camera’ as it were,
and returns to play in a more stable state.
Temporarily lost STY points are regained at the rate of
one per day spent in safe and supportive conditions.
Getting enough sleep, not being cold and hungry, and
not getting shot at or chased by monsters all go a long
way towards regaining mental resilience.

USING SANITY
The Travellers have an alien passenger aboard their
ship, a species that has an automatic feeding reflex.
It simply cannot help itself when it grabs the ship’s pet
and swallows it whole, but the Travellers are disgusted,
outraged and horrified. The Referee calls for an
immediate STY check. Those who fail are compelled to
assault the alien out of reflex.

SOCIAL STANDING (SOC)
The SOC characteristic in the Traveller Core Rulebook
is tied to the concept of a noble hierarchy of some
kind, but this may not be present in all game settings.
Even if it is, there may be cultures which use a different
system or people who have equivalent standing without
possessing a noble title. The elected president of a
multiworld polity may not be a noble as such but she
certainly has equivalent social standing and power.
Even where there is a noble hierarchy in existence,
possession of a high SOC does not necessarily equate
to holding a title. Some high-SOC Travellers may
be distant relatives of a noble and thus part of the
upper classes without having any titles of their own.
SOC indicates what level of society the individual
is accustomed to operating at and therefore their
knowledge of etiquette and how to perform appropriate
ceremonies, rituals and the like. It also indicates
whether or not the Traveller has sufficient standing to
hold a given office such as a noble title.
In some societies, noble ranks may be replaced by
religious or mercantile titles, or based on rank in a
guild. SOC is also in many ways relative; the monarch
of a small country on a balkanised planet might hold
the local rank of king but this does not place him above
(or even anywhere near) the duke who oversees an
entire subsector. SOC thus indicates social standing on
the wider stage and provides an equivalency between
Travellers from very different backgrounds. It also
provides a useful guide to precedence at functions
where people from different societies meet.
SOC 0 is a special case. A Traveller with SOC 0 is an
outcast, fugitive or pariah. This is not a passive effect
like SOC 1–2; the Traveller will be reviled, persecuted
and possibly attacked. Returning to society is not as
simple as increasing SOC to 1; the Traveller will have
to redeem themselves, obtain forgiveness or somehow
gain permission to re-enter society.

Characteristics

Meanwhile, Ilaina the Engineer has interfaced with
a computer the Travellers retrieved on a previous
mission. Using her wafer jack she begins navigating
the computer’s systems from the inside, only to be
confronted with chaotic and frightening images created
by its anti-intrusion software. Ilaina attempts to keep
a firm grip on reality and push through but must make
a STY check or lose 1D STY. If she can get past the
defences without being driven mad, she can gain
access to the computer’s systems but it will be a while
before the nightmares fade (i.e. until she has regained
her full STY value).

Later, the Travellers are confronted with a monstrous
creature so frightening they are stopped in their tracks.
Each Traveller must make a STY check or flee in terror.
Some pass their checks and bravely advance but Mike
the Marine fails. His big gun and combat skills are
unavailable as he cowers behind a nearby boulder,
unmanned by almost supernatural terror.

9

