SOC 12 equates to a Baron on the interplanetary scale,
or non-noble leaders of a minor single-planet polity.
Very famous non-noble personalities would also hold
an equivalent SOC. The senior management of a large
interplanetary corporation would typically have SOC 12
or so, whether or not they hold a noble title.
SOC 13 equates to a Marquis on the interplanetary
scale, or non-noble leaders of a fairly important
planetary government. Interstellar superstars and the
uppermost echelons of a very important corporate body
would also have SOC 13 or so.
SOC 14 equates to a Count on the interplanetary
scale, or non-noble leaders of a small multiworld government. The most senior members of a
Megacorporation would also have SOC 14 or so,
although in most societies with a noble hierarchy they
are likely to have noble titles.
SOC 15 equates to a Duke on the interplanetary scale,
or non-noble leaders of a subsector-wide polity.

EFFECTIVE SOC

SOC represents a Traveller’s ‘official’ standing but
can be modified on a temporary basis. A Traveller’s
Effective SOC determines how people react to them.
It can occasionally be higher than their normal SOC
value but more commonly Effective SOC represents a
lowered standing. For example, a noble who has been
the victim of a smear campaign or who has suffered
some public disgrace might have a lowered Effective
SOC until he regains favour, redeems himself or funds
enough propaganda to improve his status.

A Traveller’s SOC modifier is based on his permanent
SOC value when questions of etiquette and knowledge
arise, but upon Effective SOC when determining how
people react to them.
To be awarded a noble title or similar honour, a
Traveller’s Effective SOC must be high enough to hold
it. Their permanent SOC value may not be, which can
cause complications later. If a Traveller’s Effective
SOC falls below the level required for their titles or
offices, they may find themselves snubbed or their
orders simply ignored.
Travellers are unlikely to be stripped of titles or
offices just because they are out of favour at court.
However, there is always a risk, especially if someone
has suffered a serious reduction in Effective SOC.
A Traveller whose permanent SOC is too low for the
titles they hold will retain their posts and titles but is
a controversial figure, which can lead to the loss of
additional Effective SOC.
A Traveller whose Effective SOC is three or more points
too low for a given title risks having the title stripped
from them or at the very least suspended. It is possible
to make a case for this not to happen, which usually
requires an audience at court and promises that at least
sound workable. Some impoverished nobility may hold
very impressive titles which have become meaningless.
This is represented by a permanent SOC close to the
level required for the title and a lower Effective SOC.
Effective SOC can be rebuilt to its old value by actions
seen as virtuous or which attract favour. An alternative
and quite common method is to spend a lot of money
and sleaze your way back into the good graces of
those you offended. Permanently lost SOC must be
regained by conspicuously heroic, virtuous or similarly
respectable actions, or by obtaining a pardon or
forgiveness for the offence.

Characteristics

Effective SOC can be altered due to some mischance
or the whimsy of court politics. For example, if a
Traveller is a war hero and the mood at the local
Duke’s court is strongly anti-war, then he may have a
lowered Effective Soc until the political wind changes.
Other reasons for lowered Effective SOC include
leadership of a failed enterprise, failure to live up
to expectations (however unreasonable they may
be) or the actions of a ‘black sheep’ relative. Such
individuals are often granted a stipend to go away and
not attract attention – which is a good rationale for an
adventuring noble Traveller.

Effective SOC can also be altered by the favour or
disfavour of influential people. If a Traveller is currently
the favourite of a powerful noble, their Effective SOC
may be raised since others will want to benefit from
association. Similarly, if a previously respected noble
falls out of favour with the local ruler (perhaps rightly,
perhaps as a result of some plot to turn the monarch
against him) then their Effective SOC may be reduced.

11

