T

Effective SOC can be reduced by failing to maintain
the living standards expected of someone at that social
level. Costs are given on page 92 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook. Any Traveller failing to meet the standards
required for their SOC for three months in any four
must reduce his Effective SOC value to the lowest
level they maintained in that period unless there is
some good reason for the reduced standard of living. A
Traveller held prisoner and fed bread and water does
not suffer a status reduction for the indignity, although
they may be censured for allowing themselves to be
captured in the first place.
If a Traveller’s Effective SOC is lower than their SOC
for three consecutive months, their SOC is reduced
by -1 unless they can make a Difficult (10+) Admin,
Carousing, Deception or Diplomat check to convince
people that everything is alright or there is some
explanation other than relative poverty.

Characteristics

To increase SOC to a value of 10 or less, all that
is necessary is to maintain an Effective SOC at
least one point higher than the target score for six
consecutive months. Only one point of permanent
SOC can be gained at a time.

12

Increasing SOC to 11 or above requires the
maintenance of an Effective SOC at least one point
higher than the target value for a whole year. Effective
SOC can be increased by several points if an important
high-society individual endorses the Traveller, but the
costs of maintaining suitable living standards must be
met. The award of noble titles will normally follow ingame actions or events during a career and cannot be
simply bought by maintaining a luxurious lifestyle. If a
low-SOC Traveller is granted a title his Effective SOC
immediately jumps to a level suitable to hold it but if
this is not maintained it will fall again and the title may
become meaningless or be taken away.

EXAMPLE
Arix the Accountant is a low-end professional with
SOC 8. His heroic deeds in the audit department of
the Sector Duke have resulted in a knighthood, which
requires a SOC of 11. Arix’s Effective SOC jumps
immediately to 11 but his permanent SOC value is still
8. If he can maintain the lifestyle associated with his
Effective SOC for six months his permanent SOC rises
to 9, and after another six months to 10. If he could
continue in this vein for another year he would reach
SOC 11 but sadly his money runs out. This is quite an

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

embarrassment for an interstellar accountant and, more
importantly, he cannot maintain the lifestyle associated
with SOC 10. His Effective SOC drops to 9 for a few
months and Arix risks a reduction in his permanent
SOC. He can do some creative accounting to prevent
this and accounting is what he is good at. However,
he is becoming aware that others at court consider
him nothing more than a jumped-up commoner who
has failed to drag himself up to the standards required
of his new status. Arix’s knighthood is meaningless to
some of the ‘old nobility’ at court and he begins to find
court life quite uncomfortable.

ALTERNATIVE CHARACTERISTICS

To a great extent, SOC is tied to a single society. If
a Traveller ventures far from this society’s sphere of
influence, it loses much of its meaning. The same
applies to Travellers from distant cultures. This can
be solved by the application of common sense; for
example, someone from a distant state in the Vargr
Extents might be very important, with an equivalent
SOC 12 and used to dealing with people at a high
level, but their SOC value does not indicate noble rank
in the Third Imperium.
In some cases, SOC is less important than a
Traveller’s innate ability to charm and influence
people. In this case, SOC can be replaced by a
Charm (CHA) characteristic that applies almost
anywhere the Traveller goes. At the Referee’s
discretion, SOC can be retained as well, indicating
status in the Traveller’s home society.
Some characteristics are foreign to humans or other
creatures, or are entirely alien. If a being would not
have a characteristic it can be given a value of zero.
For example, an immobile intellect such as a sentient
computer would have 0 values for STR and DEX, and
probably END too. A non-sentient creature would be
assigned a value of 0 for EDU.
In cases where an alternative characteristic is desirable,
perhaps due to a very different natural environment,
a creature can be assigned one with a similar name
to indicate its prowess in such an environment. For
example, a creature that evolved in an aquatic or
extremely low gravity environment might be assigned
a characteristic named Grace rather than Dexterity. A
Traveller from a more conventional environment uses
half his relevant characteristic as its equivalent.

R

