LTERNATE
TRAVELLER CREATION

A

The career system in the Traveller Core Rulebook is
a lot of fun but also takes time and does not always
produce the right sort of Traveller for a campaign.
The variations in this chapter allows a Traveller to be
created quickly and tailored to a desired play style.

OPTIONAL TRAVELLER
CREATION RULES
These rules replace one or more parts of the Traveller
creation system, leaving the rest unchanged. Any,
all or none of these alternatives may be used at the
Referee’s discretion.

IRON MAN

In Classic Traveller, if you failed a survival roll, your
Traveller was killed. The Iron Man rules repeat that
challenge – instead of rolling on the Mishap table if
you fail a survival roll, your Traveller is killed and you
must start again. Under the Iron Man rules, you must
balance the advantages garnered from spending
another term in a career with the risk of dying in action.
Other than these changes, Iron Man works just like
normal Traveller creation.

SOLO GENERATION

Creating a Traveller on your own works just like normal,
with the following minor changes:
The Connections Rule: Instead of making connections
to other Travellers, the Referee should provide a list
of characters, organisations or places in his campaign
suitable for connections. For example, you might get
a bonus skill if you had a connection with the Imperial
Intelligence service, or were on the run from the law
and willing to take passage on the first ship to hire you.
Skill Packages: Instead of picking a skill package, gain
any one skill at Level 1.

SKILL SELECTION

In this variant, skills are picked from the Skills and
Training tables instead of rolling randomly for them. In
all other ways, it is identical to standard generation.

ALTERNATE CHARACTERISTIC DETERMINATION
Alternative methods of determining characteristics can
be used, tailoring Travellers to the desired style of play.
Boon Dice Method: The Referee may apply a Boon
on any two characteristics of the Traveller’s choice,
rolling 3D for those two characteristics and discarding
the lowest dice. This practically guarantees a Traveller
to have at least decent scores in the areas they desire.
For truly heroic Travellers, Boon dice can be rolled on
four characteristics, or even all of them.
Assignment Method: Roll 12D and write down the
value of each dice. These can then be assigned as
whole dice to the Traveller’s characteristics as desired,
allowing the Traveller to obtain high values where
they are most desirable. For a heroic Traveller, delete
any two dice scores and replace them with 5s. These
values are assigned as the Traveller desires.

MAXIMUM TERMS
A Traveller sticking to well-paying and safe careers
can avoid ageing almost indefinitely. The Referee may
wish to impose a limit on the number of terms taken
during Traveller creation. A limit of three terms will
produce Travellers competent in one or two fields but
still have a lot to learn. A limit of six or seven terms
will give experienced and skilled Travellers who can
take on dangerous missions. Past eight or nine terms,
it becomes increasingly likely that the Travellers
will be too rich and influential to bother with minor
assignments. (‘I’m a duke, and my friend here was an
admiral! Why are we wandering the galaxy instead of
sitting in our palaces?’)

13

