PACKAGE-BASED CREATION
These rules replace the standard Traveller career rules
in their entirety. Instead of rolling on the career tables,
the Traveller chooses a set of packages which contain
the skills he wishes to obtain.
Traveller creation is carried out in the following stages:
• Create and assign characteristics
• Choose a background package
• Choose a career package
• Finalise the Traveller
Any of these stages can be used instead of the
normal process of Traveller creation, at the Referee’s
discretion. For example, a Traveller might be
assigned characteristics using this system, then pick
a background option (also from this system) before
following the normal career-based Traveller creation.
Note that under this system skill levels all stack, up to
the usual maximum level of four. So, a Traveller might
gain Carouse 2 from his career to add to Carouse 1
from his background, giving Carouse 3.

CREATING CHARACTERISTICS
Characteristics are determined by any of the methods
available, as chosen by the Referee.

BACKGROUND PACKAGES

A background package replaces the Traveller’s
normal background skills and their first term,
representing a person who has reached adulthood
and completed an apprenticeship, training, education
and/or their first few years in employment. The
Traveller is now aged 22 and can begin a normal
career, or instead take a career package.

Once a background package has been assigned, the
Traveller is assumed to be 22 years old and ready to
enter a career or start the campaign. It includes all
benefits the Traveller has earned up to age 22 (the end
of their first term) and replaces all life events and other
sources of additional skills.

BELTER
STR

-1

INT

—

BENEFITS

DEX

+1 EDU

-1

Cr2500, Vacc Suit

END

—

—

SOC

SKILLS
Astrogation 0, Carouse 0, Electronics 0, Jack-ofAll-Trades 1, Mechanic 0, Medic 0, Profession
(belter) 2, Recon 0, Science 0 Vacc Suit 1
The Belter package is
available to Travellers who
spent their early years in a
belter community or similar
environment, such as a remote
outpost on a gas giant moon
or an undeveloped rockball
planet. It assumes a lifestyle
where the young Traveller
would have to be familiar with vacc suit operations;
someone who grew up in a more civilised environment
such as an orbital highport or aboard generation
starship should use the Space Habitat package instead.

alternate character creation

Background packages are designed to speed up
Traveller creation by providing a set of skills and other
benefits associated with the Traveller’s homeworld
and upbringing, reflecting the skills a young person
would acquire growing up in such an environment.
In some cases the package includes adjustments to
characteristics. These cannot reduce a characteristic
below 1 or increase it above 15.

If a background package is taken, the Traveller
receives no other skills or advantages for his
homeworld, upbringing and education. A Traveller
may only select one background package but can
choose the most applicable. Note that background
skills for any given package are set and replace the
usual 3+EDU modifier for Travellers created using the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

15

