T

DETERMINING AFFINITY AND ENMITY

Very high levels of Affinity and Enmity are extremely
uncommon. Even Enemies and Allies are usually
fairly moderate in their outlook and will not allow their
relations with the Traveller to dominate their lives.
There are, however, exceptions. The base score
for Affinity and Enmity is determined by rolling the
appropriate dice on the Relationships table and then
comparing them to the Affinity/Enmity table.
Note that this occasionally creates Contacts who are
more negatively than positively disposed towards
the Traveller and Rivals who actually rather like the
Traveller and are disposed to help them when possible.
This can create an interesting situation with many
possibilities for roleplaying.
For example, Ivah has a Rival and an Enemy as a
result of her time in the Scout Service. Her Rival rolls
1D-1 for Affinity, getting a result of 5. This indicates an
Affinity of 2. Her score on 1D+1 for Enmity is a 2, which
indicates an Enmity value of 0.

Allies, contacts, rivals and enemIes

Ivah’s Rival actually likes her and has no hostility
towards her. Ivah declares the two were friends
whose similar career paths caused one to lose out

26

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

in favour of the other on various occasions. Each
has occasionally had to put their own interests first,
which has strained their relationship. However, Ivah’s
Rival is generally inclined to help her if it is not much
trouble and if it does not impede his own progress.
Ivah decides that her Rival is now the leader of a
team of Scouts and that Ivah believes she should
have held that post. The next time they meet things
might get complicated, especially if they start taking
risks to try to outdo one another in a way that starts
out friendly but escalates…
The Enemy is rather more clear-cut. His Affinity roll is
automatically a zero, indicating no friendly intentions
whatsoever towards Ivah. The roll for Enmity comes
up an 8, giving a base value of -3. This might change
as other characteristics are generated but for the
time being his outlook towards Ivah is very negative.
Ivah decides this is another fellow Scout who was
dropped from the team at Ivah’s recommendation
and is intent on revenge. Although his enmity is not
serious enough to contemplate murder or waste his
life pursuing, this enemy feels that Ivah deserves
anything bad that befalls her. For her part, Ivah
wonders if losing leadership of the Scout team to her
Rival was something to do with this Enemy, further
complicating her relationships.

R

