Affinity

Degree of Affinity

Notes

0

None

No Affinity towards the Traveller. This may be an enemy or just someone who does
not care at all what happens to the Traveller, depending on Enmity.

1

Vaguely well
inclined

About as well inclined towards the Traveller as any random stranger with a social
conscience is likely to be. They will take minor actions to help, largely out of
common courtesy, but not go to much trouble on the Traveller’s behalf unless there
are benefits to the action.

2

Positively inclined

Will probably help in a safe and easy manner if asked, even without reward, but will
not take much risk.

3

Very positively
inclined

Will take modest risks on the Traveller’s behalf or offer help without being asked, if
they realise their friend could benefit.

4

Loyal friend

Will do almost anything to help the Traveller but may have higher loyalties to their
own family, cause or service, or to other close friends.

5

Love*

Will probably put the Traveller’s interests before their own or that of others.

6

Fanatical**

Will do whatever the Traveller asks of them (or what they think the Traveller would
want), no matter what risks are involved. May also expect others to do the same.

* Love might be romantic or in the manner of a close family member, comrade through some traumatic event, or the like. Someone
who owes a debt of honour to the Traveller, even if they do not like the Traveller all that much, might also have an affinity value of 5.
** This level of affinity is rare and may not be healthy for either party. A deluded stalker might have an affinity value of 6 but
other considerations make them dangerous.

Degree of Enmity

Notes

0

None

No Enmity towards the Traveller. This may be because they do not know who the
Traveller is, or because the Traveller has done nothing to offend them.

-1

Mistrustful

Vaguely ill-disposed towards the Traveller (or perhaps everyone in general) but
will not go out of their way to impede them. Someone with an Enmity value of -1
is unlikely to take an action that will have serious consequences for the Traveller
unless there is some great benefit.

-2

Negatively
inclined

May engage in acts of petty spite for no gain, just to annoy and upset the Traveller.
Someone with an Enmity value of -2 will probably stop short of actions that would
seriously harm or kill the Traveller.

-3

Very negatively
inclined

Will go to some trouble to impede the Traveller, just out of spite. Does not care
much what happens to the Traveller and will more than likely feel they deserve
anything they get.

-4

Hatred

Will do almost anything to get one over on the Traveller. Might actively plot against
the Traveller for the sake of revenge or causing further harm even if there is little or
no gain involved.

-5

Bitter hatred*

Will actively plot or take serious risks to cause the Traveller harm at
any opportunity.

-6

Blinded by hate**

May engage in self-destructive actions in order to harm the Traveller or put
innocents at risk.

* Bitter hatred can also represent an obligation to destroy the Traveller. The reasons might be personal or on behalf of
someone else. Alternatively, the enmity might be due to the Traveller’s opposition to a cause. It might even be altruistic after
a fashion – someone who genuinely believes the Traveller is a bad guy who must be stopped may be just as determined to
destroy them as someone who hates the Traveller on a personal level.
** Someone with this much hated may be willing to harm others to get to the Traveller and may extend their enmity to his
friends and comrades.

Allies, contacts, rivals and enemIes

Enmity

27

