T

DETERMINING POWER
AND INFLUENCE
Some associates and enemies are more valuable than
others and not always in a tangible way. The two key
factors are Power and Influence.
Power represents the level of force, money or other
assets can be directly brought to bear. This does not
mean the individual can always send in the troops
– an army officer might command a powerful force
but it is unlikely he will be able to divert it halfway
across the sector to help out an old friend without an
overwhelmingly good reason. However, very powerful
individuals can often use a small part of their overall
powerbase without compromising their position.

Allies, contacts, rivals and enemIes

Influence is less obvious than Power but in many
ways more versatile. When action is taken using
gunmen, cases of cash, or the direct intervention
of a top-end legal team, it is usually very apparent
what has happened. On the other hand, an influential
individual might discreetly put an idea in the mind of
a powerful legislator, or remind a sector duke that
his nephew owes his life to the Travellers without
actually asking for anything. Influence can sometimes
result in power being used from a different direction;
subtly and without trace.

28

For any given person, Power and Influence are
determined by rolling on the Power/Influence table.
Some individuals may have a lot of one and very little
of the other, most have a little of both. Note that this
method indicates the level of power this individual can
actually wield rather than everything their position has
available. The owner of a vast business empire might
not actually be able to bring much leverage to bear
on a problem due to constraints of accountability and
barriers built into the structure of his business.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A person with Power and Influence values of zero is still
capable of bringing their own personal talents to bear.
Conversely, just because someone has a given level of
Power or Influence does not always mean they can use
it or choose to do so.

DETERMINING SPECIAL
CHARACTERISTICS
The general nature of the association may be indicated
by the career event that created it but there is often a
more complex story waiting to be told. At the Referee’s
discretion, a given Contact, Ally, Rival or Enemy can
be further fleshed out. The Referee should decide
how many of the Traveller’s associations are to be
expanded in this way or roll 2D for each one; on a
score of 8+ there are special characteristics.
Determine the nature of these characteristics on the
table below by rolling D66 (as defined on page 5 of the
Traveller Core Rulebook). These characteristics can
modify values already generated, or create a complex
relationship where someone is an Enemy but well
disposed towards the Traveller. A situation like this
might arise where an individual is required by honour
to avenge an incident but has come to like and respect
the Traveller despite the enmity between them. The
converse might apply when causes and agendas align
but the people involved hate one another.
Affinity and Enmity have a maximum value of 6. If
either reaches 6, it cannot be further modified and
the Traveller has a fanatical friend or enemy no
matter what else happens.

Power/Influence
2D

Value

2–5

0

6–7

1

8

2

9

3

10

4

11

5

12

6

R

