This individual belongs to an unusual cultural or religious group.

32

This individual belongs to an uncommon alien species.

33

This individual is particularly unusual, such as an artificial intelligence or very alien being.

34

This individual is actually an organisation such as a political movement or modest sized business.
Powerful groups will want a lot in return for their support; minor ones will expect less but may not be able
to offer much support.

35

This individual is a member of an organisation which holds a generally opposite view of the Traveller.
Thus an Ally is a member of an organisation which opposes the Traveller’s agenda.

36

This individual is a questionable figure such as a criminal, pirate or disgraced noble. The Traveller will be
judged by association.

41

The Traveller and this individual had a very bad falling out. Reroll Enmity on 2D and use the new result if
higher than the original.

42

The Traveller and this individual had a reconciliation or other very positive change in their relationship.
Reroll Affinity on 2D and apply the new result if it is higher than the original.

43

This individual fell on hard times. Reduce Power by -1.

44

This individual was ruined by misfortune caused by the Traveller. Reduce Power to 0 and increase
Enmity by +1.

45

This individual gained influence with the Traveller’s assistance. Increase Influence by 1 level and Affinity
by 1 level.

46

This individual gained power at the expense of a third party who now blames the Traveller. Increase
Power by +1 and create a new Enemy for both the Traveller and this individual.

51

This individual is missing under suspicious circumstances.

52

This individual is out of contact doing something interesting but not suspicious. Their reappearance may
bring about an unexpected opportunity.

53

This individual is in desperate trouble and could use the Traveller’s help.

54

This individual has had an unexpected run of good fortune lately.

55

This individual is in prison or otherwise trapped somewhere.

56

This individual is found or reported dead. This may or may not be the whole story…

61

This individual has recently married or has experienced some other life-changing event that creates
new responsibilities.

62

This individual has been disowned by family, has become divorced, or otherwise has suffered a
negatively life-changing event.

63

This individual’s relationships have begun to affect the Traveller. Create a new Contact if this individual’s
Affinity is higher than Enmity or a Rival if Enmity is higher than Affinity.

64

The relationship between Traveller and associate is completely redefined. Allies become Enemies and
vice versa; Rivals become Contacts. Swap the Affinity and Enmity values over.

65

Roll two more special characteristics.

66

Roll three more special characteristics.

Allies, contacts, rivals and enemIes

31

31

