MERCHANT ACADEMY
Those intending to embark upon a career aboard
merchant starships or as a portside broker can enrol on
a suitable training programme. Some courses are run
like a university degree, whilst others are much more
vocational. Some large merchant lines have training
ships or cadet berths aboard their larger vessels, where
a prospective employee can learn on the job. The end
result is much the same, with graduates being prepared
for a fast-track career in interstellar commerce.

skills on the Broker table of the Merchant career at
level 0. If the Shipboard curriculum is selected instead,
gain all skills on the Merchant Marine table at level 0. In
addition, gain one skill rolled randomly on the Service
Skills table at level 1.

Not all graduates find employment with a major
shipping line or port operator. Some are snapped up by
smaller lines; others decide to take a different path and
embark upon another career. Many businesses value
mercantile graduates despite them not being in the
shipping sector, making the Merchant Academy a good
starting point for a career in management or diplomacy.

Graduation Benefits:
• Increase one skill already gained from the Broker
or Merchant Marine table to level 1.
• Increase EDU by +1.
• The Traveller may enter the Merchant or Citizen
career automatically at rank 1, providing this is the
first career they enter after the academy and they
enter the appropriate branch (Merchant Marine or
Broker as per their academy path).
• An honours graduate may enter the above careers
at rank 2, gaining the automatic skill for that rank.
• Graduates gain DM+1 on all advancement checks
in the Merchant or Citizen careers. Honours
graduates gain DM+2 on these checks.

Upon entry to the academy, a Traveller must choose
whether to follow the Business or Shipboard curriculum.
Entry: INT 9+, DM +1 if SOC 8+
Skills: If the Business curriculum is chosen, gain all

Graduation: INT 7+, DM+1 if EDU 8+, DM+1 if
SOC 8+. If 11+ is rolled, the Traveller graduates with
honours.

PSIONIC COMMUNITY

On the other hand, growing up among psions means
a Traveller will automatically be tested for potential
and talents, and will receive at least some training.
Graduates of a psionic community will have completed
whatever training the combinate can offer, whilst
honours graduates are among their most promising
young members. A community might not be keen to see
such an individual leave.

Entry: PSI 8+, DM+1 if INT 8+
Skills: Profession 0, Science 0, Streetwise 0
Additional: The young psionicist is tested and receives
skill level 0 in each talent gained.
Graduation: PSI 6+, DM+1 if INT 8+. If 12+ is rolled,
graduate with honours.
Graduation Benefits:
• Increase PSI by +1.
• Skill level 1 in any one talent possessed.
• Science (psionicology) 1.
• ‘Honours’ graduates gain all acquired talents at
level 1 and may advance one to level 2.
• Enlistment in the Psion career is automatic, even if
the Traveller serves in other careers in between.
• Gain a Rival who is unhappy they left the community.
Honours graduates gain an Enemy instead.

Pre-career Options

Some Travellers are lucky enough to be born into a
community where psionics are used and will receive
testing and training as a matter of course. Such
communities tend to be either physically or socially
isolated from the wider universe, which can often leave
a Traveller without necessary skills when venturing out
to begin a career. It is unlikely that a psionic community
will be among the upper echelons of society. Many
will live simple lives without the distractions of high
technology; others blend in among ordinary citizens
and are too focused on their psionic studies to achieve
great things in the world of business or the military.

33

