T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SCHOOL OF HARD KNOCKS
Some Travellers grow up on the fringes of society and
are denied the usual opportunities to enter a career or
enlist in a service. Not all of these people are criminals
but many come into contact with crime one way or
another. Those that get out of that world fall into two
categories: some leave it as far behind as possible and
others take it with them wherever they go.
Streetwise recruits from slums and alleys of big cities
are sometimes desirable for their special knowledge
and skills but are rarely promoted and often mistrusted;
a graduate of the school of hard knocks can expect to
spend a career on the bottom rungs. Some are proud
to serve and glad to make a better life. Others are less
satisfied and become a problem for their employers.
Either way, careers tend to be short.

Skills: Streetwise 1, plus any two of: Athletics 0,
Deception 0, Drive 0, Gambler 0, Melee 0, Persuade
0, Stealth 0.
Graduation: INT 7+. DM+1 if END 9+. If 11+ is rolled,
graduate with honours.
Graduation Benefits:
• Gain any three other skills listed above at level 0.
• Gain Gun Combat 0.
• ‘Honours’ graduates gain Carouse 1 and may
increase any other skill gained at level 0 to level 1.
• Decrease SOC by -1.
• DM-2 on checks to gain promotion or
commission in first career. If the Traveller leaves
this career by choice, checks in subsequent
careers are as normal.

Entry: Automatic if SOC 6-

SPACER COMMUNITY

Pre-career Options

Most who grow up on an orbital habitat or asteroid
belt community live a life much like anyone else in a
high-tech city. For these people, their homes might
as well be planetside, other than the slim chance of
a life-support failure or similar disaster. However, not
all space habitats are like this. Some are collections
of small settlements in a planetoid field, with shuttles
plying between them. For the inhabitants of such a
community, formal education is likely to take second
place to rule-of-thumb instruction in how to survive
and get a day’s work done in a spacer environment.

34

Some Travellers leave the community and seek a normal
career elsewhere but many hang around for a few
years, picking up skills that might make them invaluable
to a small merchant ship or similar employer where
competence is more important than documentation.
‘Graduates’ of a spacer community have had instruction
from skilled people, whilst ‘honours graduates’ come
out with additional skills which may have been gained
at the cost of harrowing experiences.

Entry: Automatic if homeworld size Code 0. Int 4+,
DM+1 if DEX 8+
Skills: Vacc Suit 1, plus any two of the following:
Astrogation 0, Electronics 0, Engineer 0, Profession 0.
Graduation: INT 8+, DM+1 if DEX 6+. If 12+ is rolled,
graduate with honours.
Graduation Benefits:
• Gain any two other skills listed above at level 0.
• Gain any skill listed above at level 1.
• Gain Pilot 0.
• ‘Honours’ graduates gain Jack-of-all-Trades 1.
• Increase DEX by +1, Decrease SOC by -2.
• DM+1 to enlist, gain commission or promotion in
the Merchant (free trader) career.

R

