ADDITIONAL CAREERS
TRUTHER

A truther is someone who seeks (or knows, or claims
to know) the truth about some fringe subject. In the
Third Imperium the most universal truthers are those
who seek knowledge of the Ancients or who say they
know secrets about them. There are many other kinds
of truther, however, from fringe scientists working on
far-out psionic phenomena to paranormal investigators
or conspiracy theorists.
Truthers are defined by the Truth they seek or the
knowledge they have. Their actual background and
occupation may be quite mundane, or they may
support themselves by various means (anything
from odd jobs to crime or embezzlement) whilst
they undertake their investigations or spread the
Truth. Some truthers may gain the patronage of an
organisation or group of followers whilst others are a
lonely voice in the wilderness.
Truthers do not have a conventional rank system
but instead have an additional characteristic, called
Following (FOL). This starts at 0 and can be increased
by events during their career or later in play. FOL
indicates how many people believe the truther’s
message, although this in no way influences whether or
not any of it is the actual truth.
The Interaction DM shown on the Following table is
used whenever the truther deals with media, crowds
or officials. It is applied as a positive DM to Persuade
checks when delivering The Message to the masses
or meeting fellow truthers, and as a negative DM
when dealing with straight-laced officials. Thus the
Interaction DM would be used positively to persuade
fellow believers to follow the truther into a restricted
area to protest endangerment of a local creature’s
habitat, and as a negative DM to the reaction of
officials when he turns up at the gates of a facility
demanding entry or access to records. In short, the
more credible the truther is with his fellow believers,
the less authorities like him.

BELIEVER
A believer may be part of a formal religious order
or a much looser one based upon personal belief.
They may also be part of a belief system that is not a
religion, such as a self-improvement scheme or fitness
programme. It may be that a Believer might not actually
believe the tenets of his professed faith but advocates
them to others for his own gain.
Most members of a religious movement or similar
belief system lead sedentary lives, either as religious
professionals or lay persons with a mundane job
and strong beliefs. Some belief systems are rather
violent, however, whilst others are active on the
humanitarian front and send delegations to disaster
zones. It is quite possible for a religious career
to lead to the captaincy of a mercy-starship or
leadership of a band of holy warriors.
The Traveller’s knowledge about his religion or
belief system and its tenets is represented by a
Science skill. This can be tailored to the Traveller’s
religion – Science (unified interstellar mythology) or
Science (church of the overmind), for example. The
Profession (religion) skill demonstrates the ability
to carry out ceremonies without forgetting parts or
dropping the holy relics but conveys only a basic
knowledge of the religion’s secrets.
Most benefits of a believer career are spiritual.
However, a sufficiently prominent or worthy person
might qualify for the equivalent of sainthood.
For non-religious belief systems this represents
legendary status as an icon of the belief system, who
others want to emulate.
This benefit can be gained more than once. Anyone
considered to be a sainthood candidate gains DM+2 on
all interactions with members of the same belief system
or anyone else who respects it. In addition, each
time candidacy is indicated, the Traveller may make
a Formidable (14+) Science (belief) check, subject
to DM+1 for every instance of sainthood candidacy;
success results in the Traveller becoming a living saint.
A Traveller considered to be a living saint gains DM+4
on all interactions with anyone who is part of their own
belief system or who respects it.

35

