MISHAPS
EVENTS

MISHAP

1

Injured in a misadventure or attacked by a deranged objector to your work, you must roll on the
Injury table and leave this career.

2

Someone affected by the Truth you seek or reveal bears a grudge and swears to kill you. Gain
an Enemy.

3

You are discredited, rightly or wrongly. Lose SOC -2 and FOL -D3 but you are not ejected from
this career.

4

You discover that at least some of your work is based on erroneous thinking. Lose 1 skill level
from any Science skill but you do not have to leave this career.

5

Your Truth is misused or misrepresented and you get the blame. Lose all Benefit rolls gained
thus far in this career but you do not have to leave this career.

6

Your Truthing alienates former colleagues and contacts, who are determined to bring you
down. Gain D3 Rivals.

2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

A corporate or government body wants to use your knowledge in a way you find questionable.
If you agree, gain an extra Benefit roll and one level in any Science skill, but also D3 Enemies.

4

You are called upon as a consultant for a secret research project. Gain one Contact and +1 on
one Benefit roll.

5

Understanding some new revelation requires a crash course in a field you lacked knowledge
of. Gain one level in any Electronics or Science skill you previously did not already possess.

6

Your search for Truth takes you out onto the frontiers. Gain one level of Survival or Recon.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table.

8

You make a series of high-profile appearances on entertainment/topical news shows. Gain one
level of Carouse or Persuade, and gain FOL +1.

9

A golden opportunity lands in your lap but taking advantage of it will harm someone else’s
career. If you decide to go ahead, you are you gain FOL +D3 OR gain SOC +1 OR two levels
in any of the following skills: Science, Medic, Electronics. This also gains you D3 Enemies.
Deciding not to take advantage gains you an Ally.

10

You come into contact with a mysterious group who are interested in your Truth. Interactions
with them are vague and secretive. Gain one level of Streetwise, Recon or Carousing, and
D3 Contacts.

11

A very public disagreement with another truther or a disbeliever goes in your favour and you
become something of a celebrity. Gain SOC +1 but also a Rival.

12

Your previously obscure work becomes a lot more mainstream after a new scientific or
academic breakthrough. Gain FOL +D3.

14

additional careers

1D

37

