TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE
It is possible for a Traveller to improve his skills or
characteristics by being taught, by diligent practise, or
as the result of experience gained in the field. All three
methods are abstracted by the use of Experience Points.
Experience Points may be awarded by the Referee at
the end of an adventure or for ongoing study undertaken
by a Traveller. Experience takes two possible forms:
Dedicated Experience and General Experience.
Dedicated Experience points are allocated to a
specific endeavour and cannot be assigned anywhere
else. General Experience can be allocated as the
Traveller sees fit, subject to Referee approval and
common sense. A Traveller who has just finished
an adventure that involved a lot of academic and
technical skills, plus a certain amount of running
around and getting healthy exercise, could justify
putting a General Experience Point into a physical
characteristic or technical skill (even one he did not
personally use but saw others using). Claiming that
the experiences he had on the adventure helped him
learn to speak Hiver or become a better astrogator
would be silly and should be rejected by the Referee.
Experience Points are gained using the
following guidelines.

ADVENTURE EXPERIENCE

At the end of an adventure or group of encounters,
an award of 1 General Experience Point would be
reasonable, with a bonus point for good roleplaying
or a particularly dynamic Traveller. The Referee
may choose to allocate no points to a Traveller who
did little or failed to become properly involved in
the game. For a very long adventure, experience
may be given at suitable plot breaks for segments
equivalent to a standard adventure.
These points must be allocated immediately to a skill
or characteristic the Traveller is trying to develop. They
cannot be held in a ‘pool’ for allocation all at once.

TRAINING
Travellers who are into self-improvement or learning a
new job can gain experience through training or study.
The typical Traveller who reads the odd journal, tries
out a few things from time-to-time and occasionally has
a burst of dedication and puts in some actual work,
will gain 1 Dedicated Experience point per six months
of game time. However much a Traveller may protest
that he studies avidly in every available minute, few
can keep up full-time study alongside their day job
of crewing a starship, defending the free galaxy or
whatever it is they do for a living.
If the Morale characteristic is in use (see page 5), it
can be used to adjudicate situations where a Traveller
wants to spend an unrealistically large amount of
time training or studying. If the Luck characteristic is
in use (page 4), taking time off and unwinding can be
rewarded with regaining expended LCK points, creating
a tradeoff between intense personal development and
living a fulfilling and rewarding life.
A Traveller who is in full-time training, perhaps taking
time to study at a planetary university or college, gains
one Dedicated Experience point per four months of
study, or 3 points per year.
In the case where one Traveller is teaching another
a skill they know, the student may make an Average
(8+) INT check with a negative DM equal to the skill
level being learned every four months. Thus, a roll
to learn a skill at level 0 is made without penalty; at
level 2 the penalty is DM-2, and so forth. If the roll is
successful, the trainee gains 1 Dedicated Experience
point. It is entirely possible to learn nothing; some
people are just not good students.
It is only possible to teach another Traveller to a
level one below your own skill level. So a Traveller
with Vacc Suit 1 can train someone up to level 0, a
Traveller with Vacc Suit 3 can train someone up to
Vacc Suit 2 and so on.

41

