ROAD SKILLS
AND SPECIALITIES

B

The specialities listed in the Traveller Core Rulebook
are not the only ones possible. The following
expanded specialties can be used at the Referee’s
discretion. In addition, these rules also introduce the
concept of a sub-speciality.

BROAD SKILLS

In the Traveller Core Rulebook, a Traveller who
possesses a skill which has specialities associated
with it is treated as having a skill level of 0 in all
specialities. In most cases this is a reasonable
assumption – a starship engineer who specialises in
jump drives will no doubt understand at least the basic
principles of power plant operation.
However, some skills are very broad in scope; notably
Art, Profession and Science. If these rules are used,
Travellers who possess a skill in one speciality are not
treated as having skill level 0 in all others – the ability
to paint a landscape does not permit a Traveller to play
the piano and an understanding of linguistics does not
translate to a grounding in cosmology or knowledge
of xenology. Nor does the ability to write Traveller
adventures translate to creating useful maps for them!
These three skills therefore use specialities and
sub-specialities. A Traveller who has any skill level
(including 0) in a sub-speciality is treated as having
skill level 0 in all sub-specialties of that group but has
no skill in other sub-specialities. The specialities below
expand the Art, Profession and Science skills and add
additional specialities (and sub-specialities) to those
already listed in the Traveller Core Rulebook. When a
Traveller gains a skill level in one of these broad skills,
he must assign it to a sub-speciality.
The format for a sub-specialism skill is: Skill
(specialism/sub-specialism), for example: Science
(life sciences/biology).

ART
The Art skill is divided into the following specialties:
Performing: The ability to produce an entertaining or
convincing performance by use of voice, expression,
body movement and so forth.

Creative: The ability to create works of art by sculpting,
painting and digital media.
Presentation: The ability to convey information or
emotion through writing, holographic images or an
impassioned speech.
The Art skill has the following sub-specialities, most of
which are described in the Traveller Core Rulebook:
Performing

Creative

Presentation

Performer

Visual Media

Holography

Instrument

Exotic Media

Writing

Creative Arts/Exotic Media covers strange and possibly
alien art forms using very unusual techniques and
materials such as psionic manipulation of particles or
high-technology alteration of matter.

PROFESSION
The Profession skill is perhaps the broadest of all.
The rules below expand and subdivide Profession
into several areas of related expertise. Those listed
as specialities in the Traveller Core Rulebook are
not repeated here.
Their descriptions remain the same but they are
now sub-specialities.
Some Profession specialities deal with general
fields of endeavour, such as working in hostile
environments, whilst others are geared towards
making a living at a general Tech Level. Possession of
a speciality in an area of the Profession skill indicates
a general familiarity with procedures, terminology
and the working environment but does not substitute
specific skills. For example a Traveller with Profession
(crewmember) can find and use emergency equipment
aboard a starship but is no more skilled at operating a
vacc suit than anyone else without that skill. Likewise,
he can operate and clean galley equipment but needs
the Steward skill to make proper use of it.

43

