T

When Profession is gained during a career, the
speciality and sub-speciality chosen must be
relevant to the Traveller’s background or career.
Sport, worker and colonist would be available to
almost anyone, but specialisms like crewmember are
only available to someone who would realistically
have a chance to learn these skills.
The Profession skill is divided into the following
specialties:

Broad skills and specialities

Colonist: This covers daily life on frontier and low-tech
(TL3 or less) worlds. The Traveller will be competent in
basic tasks required to establish a colony and live dayto-day, such as building basic structures like houses
and barns out of available materials.

44

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

and procedures, and will not make embarrassing
‘noob mistakes’ or be scared by normal phenomena
such as jumpspace entry. This speciality can be used
when making a check to resist the effects of a bad
jump entry or exit.
Sport: This covers professional and recreational
sports and similar activities, although it specifically
excludes combat sports. Tackling someone on the
playing field is part of a game; doing something
similar in a bar brawl requires the Melee skill.
Similarly, where there is crossover with another skill,
only the lower of the two can be applied. For example,
a character with the motorsport sub-speciality at
level 2 knows a great deal about competitive driving
and setting up a car but performance on the track is
limited by his Drive (wheel) skill.

Crewmember: This covers daily life aboard a starship.
The Traveller will know where to find tools and
emergency equipment, and how to operate standard
systems. He will also possess basic shipboard skills
such as how to correctly peg down a shipping container
or clean a fuel filter without damaging it.

Worker: This is a catch-all for work-related
professional skills suited to a mid or high-tech
environment. It includes most of the specialities listed
in the Traveller Core Rulebook.

Freeloader: This covers ways of obtaining items
without buying or making them. This does not always
indicate illegal activity but freeloading is often a
morally grey area.

Colonist/Ranching: Looking after herds or flocks.
This speciality has some overlap with the Animals
skill but deals more with tasks like rounding up cattle,
slaughtering animals and ensuring herds are safe
from bad weather.

Hostile Environment: The hostile environment
speciality covers operating in dangerous environments
such as high and low gravity, underwater and in areas
where special protection is needed such as biohazard
and radiation threat zones. The Vacc Suit skill is
still needed to work in a suit but a Traveller’s hostile
environment speciality can be used when carrying out
tasks that are made more difficult by the environment,
and to avoid hazards.
Spacer: This covers the basics of living and working
aboard spacecraft or space stations. Someone with
the spacer speciality will be familiar with spacer slang

The Profession skill is then subdivided into the following
specialities and sub-specialities:

Freeloader/Scrounging: Covers a multitude of sins,
mostly concerned with covertly obtaining something
and getting away with it. This includes some legal
activities, like searching a junkyard for spares.
Freeloader/ Scrounging can be used to abstract a
few petty thefts for subsistence purposes or to find a
suitable component in a starship scrapyard.
Scrounging up something to replace that busted-up
fuel flow regulator valve: Difficult (10+) Profession
(freeloader/scrounging) check (2D hours, INT)

Colonist

Freeloader

Hostile Environment

Spacer

Sports

Worker

Farming

Scrounging

Contaminent

Belter

Atmosphere Surfing Armourer

Ranching

Security

Low-G

Crewmember

Golf

Biologicals

High-G

Motorsports

Civil Engineering

Underwater

Racquet Sports

Construction

Team Ball Sports

Hydroponics

Track & Field

Metalworking
Polymers

R

