Freeloader/Security: Permits a Traveller to set up
or defeat mechanical and electronic locks, and other
means of passive security, and also to spot alarms,
traps or other passive measures intended to keep
people away from valuables.
Hostile Environment/Contaminant: Used to avoid
hazards originating from biological, chemical or nuclear
contamination. It grants the ability to spot potential
hazards and decontaminate safely but will not help if
the Traveller is exposed to radiation or agents without
protection. An insidious or tainted atmosphere counts
as ‘contamination’ in this sense.
Making a chemical spill safe: Average (8+) Profession
(hostile environment/contaminant) check (3Dx5
minutes, EDU)
Hostile Environment/High-G: Represents experience
at operating in environments of 1.2G and upwards
and is mainly used to avoid hazards or offset penalties
imposed by the environment.
Staying conscious through an 8G turn aboard a combat
jet: Difficult (10+) Profession (hostile environment/
high-G) check (1D seconds, END)

Moving fast through a debris-littered area aboard
a tumbling starship with no working artificial gravity
Difficult (10+) Profession (hostile environment/low-G)
check (3D seconds, DEX)
Hostile Environment/Underwater: Represents
experience at operating in aquatic environments,
or when submerged in other fluids. It enables the
Traveller to avoid or make use of currents, avoid
stirring up silt and carry out tasks made difficult by
underwater conditions.

Spacer/Belter: The Belter sub-speciality covers life as
an asteroid miner. The Traveller will be familiar with the
slang and standard procedures used by both corporate
miners and those who live as belters. A belter will be
familiar with the art and science of finding valuable
deposits of ore, minerals, hydrocarbons or other
resources that can be extracted for use or to sell at a
profit. They will also have at least some familiarity with
the other aspects of prospecting, such as claims law,
strike registry and so forth.
Spacer/Crewmember: This indicates a Traveller’s
familiarity with the general tasks needed aboard a
starship. Many deck crew aboard large ships do not
have specific skills but simply add their labour to tasks
such as maintenance, cleaning, cargo loading and
shepherding passengers.
Sport/Various: Represents skill at a particular activity
such as ball sports or the exotic sport of atmosphere
surfing – using a personal re-entry shield to drop from
orbit. As a rule, skilled sportspersons tend to be able to
pick up at least the basics of other activities. However,
the Referee may rule that a given sport is beyond a
Traveller’s experience.
Worker/Metalworking: Traditional blacksmithing and
the use of powered tools in a technological workshop.
Worker/Armourer: Skill at maintaining armour and
weapons, and making slight alterations to equipment.

SCIENCE

There are five (very) broad areas within the general
field of science. Each is considered to be a speciality of
the Science skill and any skill levels in a sub-speciality
normally grants level 0 in all others belonging to that
speciality. The Referee may rule that this is not the
case for very obscure fields or areas of knowledge that
a Traveller has had no chance to encounter.
The specialities within the Science skill are:
Life Sciences: The study of living things and
life processes.

Broad skills and specialities

Hostile Environment/Low-G: Represents experience
at operating in environments of less than 0.2G and
is mainly used to avoid hazards or offset penalties
imposed by the environment. In addition, a Traveller
may attack with a weapon that does 1D of damage for
every level of his low-G skill without risking becoming
disorientated. So, a Traveller with Profession (hostile
environment/low-G) 2 can use a weapon that does
up to 2D damage (plus or minus points are ignored)
without any risk of disorientation.

Searching a river bed for valuables dropped in the
water without stirring up the muddy bottom Average
(8+) Profession (hostile environment/underwater)
check (2D minutes, DEX).

45

