T

R

A

V

E

L

L

Life Sciences

Physical Sciences

Robotic Sciences

Social Sciences

Spaces Sciences

Biology

Chemistry

Cybernetics

Archaeology

Astronomy

Genetics

Physics

Robotics

Economics

Cosmology

Psionicology

Jumpspace Physics

History

Planetology

Xenology

E

Linguistics
Philosophy
Psychology
Sophontology

Physical Sciences: The study of energy, forces
and matter.
Robotic Sciences: The study of organic and inorganic
robotic systems.
Social Sciences: The study of interactions between
people and groups.
Space Sciences: The study of astronomical
phenomena and the interactions of bodies in space.

Broad skills and specialities

The Science skill is then subdivided into the following
specialities and sub-specialities. Descriptions of those
listed as specialities in the Traveller Core Rulebook are
not repeated here.

46

Physical Science/Jumpspace Physics: The
jumpspace physics sub-speciality deals with jump
drives and associated phenomena, including
theoretical research into other forms of faster-thanlight travel and jumpspace phenomena not associated
with interstellar travel.

MELEE
The Melee skill has numerous specialisms. The
unarmed speciality represents all-round close-quarters
fighting ability. This might be a formally trained fighting
system such as Ju-Jitsu or mixed martial arts, or could
be a familiarity with nasty grab-and-punch brawls.
Other unarmed combat specialities are available,
representing advanced capabilities in some areas but
leaving weaknesses in others.
Grapple: This represents the ability to fight at extreme
close quarters using wrestling, throwing, choking and
joint-locking techniques. This may come from a formal
system such as catch wrestling or Judo, or might simply
be a combination of experience and nastiness.

Grapple also covers some actions that are not pure
wrestling. A ‘grapple’ between two combatants may
involve them bashing one another against walls or
delivering knees, elbows headbutts and biting, and
possibly even an attempt to push a handgun into
the other’s ribs and pull the trigger. The common
denominator in all this is that it is happening in
a chaotic extreme-close-quarters grabbing and
wrestling situation.
A Traveller with the Grapple speciality gains no
benefit from it other than when in a grappling
situation. If a grapple has begun, the skilled grappler
may inflict one point of extra damage per skill level
any time he hurts his opponent. He also treats his
effective Melee skill as twice his grapple speciality
level when wrestling with an opponent.
Striking: This represents skill at delivering blows with
the limbs. This might come from a formal system such
as boxing or Karate, or could be nothing more than the
ability to throw big swinging punches. A striker treats
his Melee skill as 0 in a grapple unless he also has
a speciality such as unarmed or grappling. However,
he is more effective in an exchange of blows. A striker
may add one point of damage per level of his striking
speciality on any occasion he does damage with
natural weapons, other than in a grapple.
Fencing: This represents skill with a narrow range
of relatively light blade weapons including the rapier,
smallsword and their sporting equivalents. A fencer
treats his Melee skill as 0 when using other weapons
unless he has another speciality that covers their use,
such as the more general Melee (blade). When fighting
with a rapier or similar light bladed weapon, he treats
his effective Melee skill as twice his fencing speciality.

R

