ALTERNATE PLAY STYLES
NARRATIVE TASK RESOLUTION
Role-playing games have their origins in wargaming
which, by definition, tends to be very mechanics-heavy
and simulationist. However, over the years other styles
of gaming have evolved which rely less on mechanics
and more on a shared narrative between Referee
and players. At the Referee’s discretion, a narrative
component can be added into a Traveller campaign.
If this option is used, each Traveller is entitled to a
number of Narrative Events per game session, tied
to their skills and characteristics. Each Traveller may
declare one Narrative Event for every positive point
of their Characteristic modifiers and one for every skill
level they have. These are tied to the characteristic
or skill they derive from, and must fit the skill or
characteristic being used.
So, a Traveller with a DEX modifier of +2 and an
INT modifier of +1 has three characteristic-based
Narrative Events available. Two must somehow be
connected with speed, agility or manual dexterity,
and one with intellect or problem-solving. If the same
Traveller also has Pilot (spacecraft) 2 and Persuade
1, he may perform two Piloting-related Narrative
Events and one connected with his ability to convince
others of something.
A Narrative Event essentially replaces a skill or
characteristic check and under normal conditions
would be used to narrate something positive,
although there is nothing to stop a Traveller narrating
some minor disaster where they failed to accomplish
their goals if circumstances warrant it. More
commonly, the Traveller may use a Narrative Event
to automatically complete a task.
A Narrative Event cannot make the impossible
achievable; what the Traveller narrates must be
plausible. For example, if the Travellers are trying to
move a collapsed wall, it is not plausible for one of
them to scoop all the rubble out with a teaspoon, or
blow it up with explosives the Travellers do not have. A
Narrative Event must also be interesting. If the Traveller
were to describe how they improvise a lever and locate

a large piece of rubble to move aside, creating a hole
big enough to get through, this would seem acceptable.
Just stating that the rubble got moved is not really
narrative and should not be allowed by the Referee.
A Narrative Event essentially replaces any skill or
characteristic check the Traveller might make and
cannot be used if the check was impossible. It can
be assumed that the Traveller succeeds solidly but
outstanding results (equivalent to Effect 6+) are not
possible. What a Narrative Event can do is to create a
favourable circumstance, such as allowing a Traveller
to shoot an enemy before they throws a grenade, no
matter what the initiative order might be.
A Narrative Event cannot be used against another
Traveller but can be used to rescue them from
disaster. For example, when Arix the Accountant
slips and falls from a mountain ledge, ‘Two-Guns’
Cassandra can narrate how she dives to the edge
and grabs him before he falls to his death. The
Referee may also rule that certain non-player
characters are immune to Narrative Events or might
even use them. Some situations (e.g. the climax of an
adventure) can also be off-limits to Narrative Events
at the Referee’s discretion. This ensures that the
Travellers arrive at the final scene in a condition to
deal with the final threat but does not give them an
easy ride in the climactic battle or challenge.
A Narrative Event can be used to cause harm to an
NPC; for example a Traveller might narrate how they
clobber a gunman with a chair, rather than risking a skill
check that might be failed. However, damage must still
be rolled, so the final outcome is in some doubt.
The use of Narrative Events creates a more cinematic
style of Traveller game, in which the Travellers can
automatically succeed or avoid disasters caused by
bad dice rolls. This allows them a greater chance of
getting to the big climax scene and allows a lot more
creative input, but it is not suitable for all groups. Some
will try to exploit the narrative style of play to gain a
competitive advantage, whereas the whole concept
of narrative play is that it is cooperative between the

47

