T

Referee and Travellers. With the right group, narrative
play creates a whole new dimension to Traveller
games but if it is abused the Referee is advised to
return to the normal rules.

THE MUNDANE EVENTS CHECK
Sometimes it is necessary or interesting to determine
how well a Traveller completes a task that is not
covered by any particular skill area, or as an indicator
of how well or badly a Traveller does during a glossedover period of inactivity. A Mundane Events check may
be requested by the Referee. This is a simple 2D roll
against an Average (8+) difficulty.
At the Referee’s discretion, a Mundane Events check
can be modified by a relevant skill if appropriate.
If a Traveller is working as a starport broker, it is
reasonable to expect that their Broker skill will affect
how well they are doing in daily life.

Alternate Play Styles

Very good or bad (Effect 6+ or -6) results indicate that
things went unusually well or badly but the Referee
should not impose extreme results on a Traveller that
are essentially unearned. For example, Arix visits his
old friend Saalif, requiring a journey of several weeks
by commercial starship. The trip is not particularly
relevant to the storyline so the Referee asks for a
Mundane Events check to indicate the general nature
of events. It comes up a double-1, giving an Effect of -6
against the benchmark Average difficulty. This indicates
something has gone awry.

48

While it would not be unreasonable (if upsetting and
ironic) for a Traveller to die as a result of a disastrous
dice roll in combat, it is not desirable for Arix to be
killed by a freak drive explosion or pirate attack on
what was a random roll. Instead the Referee decides
that the trip was a nightmare, with extra fees, delays,
bad food, being stuck in a backwater starport for
three weeks and so forth.
Meanwhile, the Referee decides to see how Saalif
has been doing since Arix saw him last. Saalif rolls a
straight 12 for his Mundane Events. This is the best
possible result but it does not mean he has won the
planetary lottery and been made king or anything
so extreme. Unearned prizes are equally unfair to
Travellers. The Referee decides that Saalif has been
promoted at work, moved into a nice new house and
won a few hundred Credits in a competition he did not
remember entering. He is also in good health and has
lost a few pounds; he is doing well and looking great.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Arix and Saalif then head off on an adventure. Any
rewards and hazards they encounter will be earned
as captains of their own fate and so extremes are
entirely acceptable.

RECOGNITION OF COMPETENCE
There are many situations where a Traveller who
is competent in the appropriate area of expertise
would know basic facts, recognise circumstances or
be able to perform standard tasks. At the Referee’s
discretion, Travellers should be given information or
allowed to perform actions without needing to roll
dice. This is based on their level of competence,
indicated by their skill level.
Skill Level 1 represents a basic professional level of
competence. The Traveller should be able to perform
routine tasks, maintain equipment and remember
information relevant to their field of competence.
Skill Level 2–3 represents an experienced professional
who will be able to undertake quite complex tasks and
will know a great deal about their subject.
Skill Level 4+ represents highly advanced
knowledge, training and experience. The Traveller
will be able to connect apparently unrelated facts
or spot small discrepancies that a less experienced
individual might miss.
For example, if the Travellers are trying to figure out
how a shooting occurred, they would normally use
the Investigation skill. However, a Traveller with Gun
Combat 1 or better would know that some of the bullets
they have dug out of a wall are of a calibre used in
revolvers which, coupled with finding ejected cases,
suggests more than one gun – a revolver and a semiautomatic – were used.
Someone with Gun Combat 2–3 might examine the
ejected cases and realise this particular ammunition
manufacturer is a favoured contractor to the world
government which does not sell ammunition to civilians.
A skill of Gun Combat 4 or more would allow a pretty
accurate reconstruction of who fired from where to be
conducted ‘by eye’ without sophisticated equipment.
The same information might be obtained by
investigation using appropriate skills but this would
require dice rolls whereas a suitably competent
Traveller will simply know the answers.

R

