COMBAT
This chapter contains optional rules for combat
situations. As with all other material in this book, the
Referee must decide which, if any, of these rules
are to be in use. Some add realism or new combat
options, while others cover situations that might
arise during a campaign.

AMMUNITION EXPENDITURE
Travellers can only carry a limited amount of
ammunition – half a dozen rifle magazines represents
a significant amount of weight and bulk! This system
allows for the possibility that Travellers might run out of
ammunition during a firefight, without requiring them to
keep track of every shot fired.
An attack made with a firearm or energy weapon is
not necessarily a single shot. For every shot that has
a chance to hit the target, the Traveller may have fired
several more rounds or bursts that went nowhere
useful, which means that a weapon could be empty
after a single attack. This represents ‘walking’ a
weapon onto target or the general difficulty of hitting
anything under combat conditions.
Every weapon that uses ammunition has a chance
to run out whenever the Traveller makes an attack.
This is represented by rolling a dice of a different
colour along with the attack dice. If the ammunition
dice comes up equal to or below the weapon’s
Reload Threshold, the weapon is empty and must be
reloaded before firing again.
This does mean that a lucky Traveller might get
through a firefight lasting 15 combat rounds without
reloading his revolver. The Referee can deal with this
in one of two ways. The first is to assume that the
Traveller has had the opportunity to slip a couple of
rounds into the weapon now and then during lulls in
the action, or has swapped part-empty magazines
out whenever they could. Alternatively, the Referee
might impose common-sense limits on weapon
capacity – a six-shot revolver is definitely empty after
six attacks have been made.

The base Reload Threshold for most weapons is 2,
assuming a standard capacity weapon for its type.
This means that if the ammunition dice comes up a 1
or 2, the weapon is empty. Weapon modifications can
alter the Reload Threshold, as can the nature of the
attack being made.
To determine how Reload Threshold is affected,
start with the weapon’s normal mode of attack in the
Reloading table. Moving up the table reduces Reload
Threshold by -1 (to a minimum of 1), while moving
down increases it by +1. Weapons are still limited by
their maximum rate of fire – a revolver cannot deliver a
Very Rapid Fire attack!
In the case of weapons that only fire single shots, such
as a black powder pistol or disposable anti-tank missile,
the weapon automatically requires reloading after one
attack. Weapons such as a double-barrelled shotguns
are treated as manual repeaters for their first attack
and are assumed to be empty after the second.
Rate of Fire
• Aimed Fire
• Normal Attack
• Burst
• Autofire
• Rapid Fire
• Very Rapid Fire

DETERMINING RELOAD THRESHOLD
The Reload Threshold of a weapon is based on its
ammunition capacity relative to its normal mode of
operation, as shown on the Reload Threshold table.
Increasing ammunition capacity by 50% reduces the
Reload Threshold by 1, while increasing it by 100%
reduces Reload Threshold by 2, to a minimum of 1.
Some variation can be permitted here; a weapon
that is within +/1 20% of these figures qualifies
for the modification. Thus an assault rifle with a
42-round magazine counts as a 50% increase in
ammunition capacity.

49

