RANDOM FIRST BLOOD

Instead of always applying damage to END first, the first
damage sustained in any combat is applied to a random
physical characteristic and further damage after that can
be allocated to any physical characteristic. This makes
a low END Traveller more survivable.

ALTERNATIVE INITIATIVE

Under this system, combat still takes place in sixsecond rounds but there is no strict initiative order to
actions. Instead, everything that takes place in a given
round is assumed to be a mad scramble with many
things happening at once. All actions are resolved
and then the effects are implemented simultaneously.
Thus, a Traveller riddled with bullets as they swing their
sword may still land a blow, or two combatants might
shoot one another and collapse simultaneously.
This is not unrealistic. It is very rare for a weapon
to instantly ‘switch off’ a target, so a Traveller
committed to an action will carry it out before any
wounds they receive in the process take effect.
However, it does take time to cover a gap between
two combatants, so ranged attacks against targets
who are not already in close combat with the shooter
are resolved before the melee attack.

If the difference between the two combatants’ modified
initiative scores is less than 6, their actions are more
or less simultaneous. The faster Traveller may get off a
shot a split second before the axe swinging at his head
arrives but not in time to stop it.
For example, Arix the Accountant opens a door in an
enemy base and is spotted by a guard. The guard
draws his pistol and turns to face Arix, intending to
shoot him on sight. Arix steps back and slams shut the
heavy crystalliron door. Arix wants to act before his
opponent, for obvious reasons. He rolls initiative using
his INT modifier of +1 at a difficulty level of Average (8+)
and gets an 8 on the dice. With his INT modifier, this
gives Arix an Effect (and thus a base initiative) of +1.
The guard’s Initiative roll comes up 9 on the dice.
With his DEX modifier this gives an Effect of +2.
However, he is carrying out a complex action; drawing
and pointing his weapon as he turns. A -6 modifier is
imposed, giving a final modified initiative of -4.
The difference between +1 and -4 is 5 – not quite
enough! Arix slams the door and leans on it,
breathing heavily. For a second his buddies think he
closed it in time but then they see the blood seeping
through his jacket…

MATERIAL DESTRUCTION

In order to damage or destroy an object it is necessary
to hit it with a weapon or place explosives such that
they will cause harm. This presents little problem if
the Traveller is not interrupted. Attacks with hand
weapons on large inanimate objects (e.g. vehicles
or buildings) will usually hit them; Travellers simply
need to work out how much damage they deal. It is
necessary to roll to hit when attacking from a distance,
say with firearms or artillery fire, and explosives must
be planted using the appropriate skill.

Combat

In a situation where a Traveller wants to do something
before someone else can act, such as shooting an
opponent as they are drawing a weapon or rushing
forward to attack with a knife, an opposed Initiative
check is made using the following procedure:
• Roll initiative as normal, using DEX or INT. The
Effect of this check is the Traveller’s base initiative.
• If the Traveller has to take one very short action
(e.g. stabbing with a hand weapon or pointing a
gun), subtract -2 from the base initiative.
• If the Traveller has to take a longer action (e.g.
drawing a weapon or crossing 2–3 metres to
attack with a hand weapon), subtract -4 from the
base initiative.
• If the Traveller has to take a complex or multiple
action, (e.g. drawing a weapon and turning to
point it at someone behind him, or drawing a
sword whilst charging at the target), deduct -6
from the base initiative.

If the difference between the two combatants’ initiative
is 6 or more, the faster combatant may carry out their
action and resolve its effects before the slower one
can do anything. If the slower combatant is rendered
incapable of acting (either by circumstances or
incapacitation) their action will not occur. If the slower
combatant is hurt but not incapacitated, DM-2 is applied
to their actions during that turn.

51

