T

Sometimes it can be important to know where a blow or
shot landed. This can be abstracted from the damage
dice – a high damage score suggests something
important has been hit; lower damage indicates a
less critical area. However, with some kinds of armour
offering only partial coverage, a system for resolving
where a Traveller is hit may sometimes be useful.
1D

Location

1

Head

2

Arms

3–5

Torso

6

Legs

GENERAL HIT LOCATION

When a Traveller is struck by a weapon, roll on the
Locations table to determine the precise location struck.

Combat

Most attacks tend to be directed at the centre of body
mass, which is also where most vital organs are
located. Fortunately, the torso is the easiest part of a
Traveller to armour. Many armour types – such as a
flak jacket – protect only the torso but represent a good
bargain in terms of weight and coverage as there is a
good chance an attack will strike there.

54

A

V

E

L

L

E

A Minor Wound is inflicted if damage is less than
half the Traveller’s END score. Minor wounds have
no additional effects.

HIT LOCATIONS

If a Traveller is hit in a particular location, the default
option is that they gain the benefit of the best armour
they are wearing on that location. If additional detail
is required, the Referee may impose a check to see
if armour was hit or an exposed area struck. For
example, if a Traveller is hit on the head whilst his
vacc suit faceplate is open, the Referee might impose
a check to see if the weapon entered the Traveller’s
helmet or struck an armoured area. This is more detail
than most Traveller games really need, however, so
should only be used in critical situations.

WOUND EFFECTS

R

In general, the severity of an injury is indicated by the
amount of damage it deals. However, blows and shots
to particular locations may have specific effects. There
are three levels of wound severity: Minor, Major and
Severe. The amount of damage required to inflict these
wounds is based upon the Traveller’s starting END.

A Major Wound is inflicted if the Traveller receives
between half his END score and his full END score in a
single instance. A major wound will affect the Traveller’s
ability to carry out actions relevant to the damaged
body part until it is healed.
A Severe Wound is inflicted if the Traveller receives
more than his END score. A Severe wound will cause
the Traveller to lose consciousness and will have
serious consequences even after he recovers.
The consequences of a wound persist even after the
Traveller has recovered any END points after a fight.
Healing from a Major wound requires a successful
routine (6+) Medic check and D3 days of recuperation.
A Severe wound requires an Average (8+) Medic check
and 1D days of recuperation, after which the Traveller
suffers the effects of a Major wound for another D3 days.
The effects of even more severe wounds are likely to
be irrelevant; receiving more than twice the Traveller’s
END score will likely kill him. If further wound effects
are desired, the following rules can be applied:
A Crippling wound results from taking at least twice
the Traveller’s END score in one attack. If the wound
is survived, the location hit is completely out of action
and suffers permanent damage. STR, END or DEX
(selected at random) is reduced by D3.
A Critical wound results from taking at least three
times the Traveller’s END score in one attack. If the
Traveller survives, the location hit is completely out of
action and suffers permanent damage. STR, END or
DEX are reduced by D3+1 each.
A Mortal wound results from taking at least four
times the Traveller’s END score in one attack. This
is unlikely to be survivable and is sufficient to shear
off a limb or decapitate a Traveller. If the Traveller
somehow survives they will need to replace or
regrow a limb or some organs.
A Devastating wound results from taking at least
five times the target’s END score or more in a single
attack. The location struck is completely destroyed,
vapourised or smashed beyond recognition. This is
mainly a cinematic effect but can have implications
when facing certain foes.

R

