Wound Effects
Location

Major Wound

Severe Wound

Head

DM-1 on all checks.

DM-2 on all checks.

Arms

DM-1 on all checks involving the arms.

DM-1 on all checks involving the arms.

Torso

DM-1 on all physical checks; speed
reduced by 1m.

DM-2 on all physical checks. Traveller can only crawl
unless supported.

Legs

Speed reduced by 2m. DM-1 on all
movement-based checks.

Leg disabled; Traveller can only hobble slowly with
support. No movement-based activity is possible.

UNUSUAL CREATURES
Some creatures do not obey the usual rules for
damage. For example, dispersed creatures without
the organs most animals have might be more difficult
to stop than their END score suggests. For example,
a crippling wound to a dispersed creature’s tentacle
might be sufficient to disable it and allow the Travellers
to escape; in this case the effect of the wound is more
important than the damage delivered, as the creature
will not be rendered unconscious by loss of END points
in the conventional manner.
For another example, the Travellers are investigating
a derelict space station whose inhabitants have been
turned into zombie-like creatures by alien spores
infesting their nervous system. After seeing Cassandra
riddle a couple of them with pistol bullets to no effect,
Mike the Marine realises they need to be shot apart
to stop them. He takes careful aim and blasts one (a
former dock worker with an END of 8) in the leg with
his shotgun. Rolling damage, Mike gets a total of 17
points – enough for a Crippling wound. The sporezombie’s leg is completely out of action. It continues
to crawl towards Mike, who can now easily avoid its
advance providing he maintains a brisk walking pace.

Meanwhile, Arix the Accountant has found a plasma
gun. He is not a great shot but manages to hit one of
the spore-zombies. A roll for hit location comes up a 1;
the head. Rolling damage for his 1DD weapon, Arix gets
a 4, 40 points of damage! The spore-zombie’s head is
completely vaporised along with a chunk of its torso and
a nearby wall. What remains of the spore-zombie is no
longer a threat. Arix nods in grim satisfaction.

SPECIFIC LOCATIONS
The Traveller Core Rulebook assumes that Travellers
are shooting at the centre of body mass and that
limbs or heads are hit more or less by accident. If a
Traveller wants to shoot or strike at a specific body
part they may try to do so. Hitting a specific location
is tricky even with an aimed shot and is subject to
DM-2. If using more rapid-fire modes of combat,
DM-6 is used instead. Failure indicates the target
has been completely missed.
The main benefits of shooting at specific locations are
to bypass cover or armour, for example shooting an
opponent in the leg if his torso is armoured. A wound
to a specific location will have the effects noted under
Wound Effects, depending on its severity.

WEAPON SCANNERS
AND SEARCHES

Combat

Getting past weapon scanners is not a combat action –
unless something goes very badly wrong, perhaps – but
it can be important if combat occurs within a secured
area. There are essentially two ways weapons can
be detected: by technical means (scanners) and by a
search made by security personnel.
Attempts to bypass security by having weapons
brought in elsewhere or by negating the security (such
as by bribing guards to allow a person or container
to pass unsearched) are not covered here. We are
purely concerned with attempts to sneak a weapon
past the security station.

55

