T

How difficult an item is to slip through security depends
on its size and how much like a weapon it appears. If
scanners are in use, the composition of the weapon
also matters. The modifiers here assume an object
is no larger than a typical handgun and shaped like a
recognisable weapon. The following DMs are applied if
the weapon differs from this basic type:
Weapon is disassembled or concealed (weapon is
concealed inside some innocent looking object, or is
in parts dispersed where they will seem to be normal
components of the Traveller’s luggage): DM+4
Weapon does not look like a weapon (weapon is
disguised somehow): DM+2
Weapon is very small (small knife, tiny high-tech
projectile or energy weapon): DM+1
Weapon is small (compact handgun, body pistol or
similar weapon): DM+0
Weapon is large (Bulky handgun, very small
submachinegun): DM-2
Weapon is very large (submachinegun or laser
carbine): DM-4
Weapon is extremely large (Rifle or light
machinegun): DM-6
Note that in this case ‘large’ and ‘extremely large’
simply mean the weapon is big enough to be difficult
to conceal and will tend to attract notice even if it is
disguised as something else.

Combat

DIRECT SEARCHES

56

Direct searches are available at any Tech Level and
are not always intrusive. At the most basic, security
personnel may be simply looking for weapon-shaped
objects or strange bulges in clothing. They will also try
to ‘read’ people to see who looks a little bit ‘off’. Anyone
who stands out – such as being unduly nervous – may
be searched more diligently. A member of an alien
species or culture with unusual or difficult to read
mannerisms may attract more or less attention than
more typical starfarers.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

To get past a simple visual search – i.e. the guards
are simply looking people over to see if they are
behaving oddly or carrying something they should
not – requires an opposed Persuade or Stealth check
against the Recon skill of the guards. DM-2 applies
to the Travellers’ check if the guards are unusually
alert. Very alert guards, or those who are looking for a
weapon they are sure is there somewhere, will conduct
a diligent search, inflicting DM-4.
Direct searches take time and are typically used where
technical means are not available or where suspicion
has been aroused. Arguably, Travellers will encounter
a simple visual search any time security personnel look
at them but if they seem to be going about their normal
business and do not have weapons on display they will
not attract attention and the ‘search’ can be assumed
to have been nothing more than a cursory glance.
Essentially this means that unless the Travellers are
stupid or careless they will not have to make a check
every time a security officer walks by.

TECHNOLOGICAL SEARCHES
Technological weapon searches become possible at
TL4, with metal detectors used to spot items. Metal
detectors, as the name suggests, can only detect
items that contain metal. A ceramic knife, or body pistol
made from non-metallic components, will automatically
pass the scanner. Note that handgun ammunition is
normally of metal, so a non-metallic weapon needs to
be accompanied by non-metallic ammunition.
Metal detectors are all-or-nothing devices. If any
significant amount of metal is present the detector
will pick it up if it is calibrated properly. If the detector
is triggered, security personnel will investigate and
a direct search will be made. On some occasions
a metal detector will be badly calibrated and metal
objects will not be detected. This is a matter of good
luck or judgement on the Travellers’ part however,
and can be done by making a Very Difficult (12+)
Streetwise check to pick a time when the detectors are
not working properly.
At TL7, complex scanners become available which
include metal detection, ultrasound or ‘soft’ X-ray
imaging to build up a picture of what is under clothing
or inside luggage, and higher-tech sensors such
as nuclear magnetic resonance devices which can
tell what materials are present. Chemical detection
systems can spot explosives (and other compounds) by
sampling the air around a Traveller. This includes most
propellants used in firearm ammunition.

R

