From TL7 upwards, weapon detection suites become
steadily more sophisticated. The base difficulty to
get any weapon through security is Average (8+); the
Persuade or Stealth skill can be used depending on
whether the Traveller wants to hide the item and hope it
is not discovered or rely on it not being recognised. The
Tech Level of the detection suite is used as a negative
DM on this check, so slipping a handgun through a TL8
detection suite requires an Average check at DM-8.
Modifiers for size and concealment still apply.
For ‘stealth’ weapons designed to defeat security, a
DM+1 applies for every two full Tech Levels of the item,
in addition to the previous modifiers.
Laser weapons do not use explosives and may not
be shaped like standard firearms, so gain DM+2
to defeat conventional scanners. However, from
TL9 upwards detection suites contain an energy
emissions detector that will be set off by a powerpack
– the same applies to the batteries in gauss weapons
and other powered weaponry. This will trigger a
direct search unless the power unit is convincingly
disguised as something innocuous.
As a baseline, it is reasonable to assume that most
starports where weapons are restricted have at
least TL12 detection equipment. Better detectors
may be used on higher-tech worlds; lower-tech
operators will usually import them if they hope to
restrict weapons use.
For example, Cassandra wants to slip a gun into the
heavily secured starport. She chooses a TL10 body
pistol and dismantles it, concealing it throughout
her luggage inside items that look innocuous on a
scanner. The port has TL12 detection equipment, so
Cassandra is trying to make an Average (8+) Stealth
check at DM-12. She gains DM+5 (half her stealth

weapon’s Tech Level) plus DM+4 because the weapon
is dismantled and concealed in parts, and another
DM+1 because she is using a smaller than average
weapon. This is a net DM-2, making the Stealth check
a tricky challenge but doable.

GETTING CAUGHT
Travellers who get caught with weapons they are not
supposed to have may face serious consequences.
However, they might be able to reduce those
consequences. If the weapon is within one Law Level
of what is allowed (for example a small submachinegun
in an area where handguns are allowed), the Traveller
may face only a token fine and refused entry provided
they can provide a suitable excuse. A gun carelessly
left in a bag from the Travellers’ last stop – a lawless
freeport – will attract less official displeasure than a
disassembled body pistol the Traveller was clearly
trying to smuggle into a secured area.
The Traveller thus has a chance to blag their way
out of the situation and escape with only a token
fine (3D x Law Level in Credits) and a stern warning.
To do so, the Traveller must make an Easy (4+)
Persuade or Diplomat check with the world’s Law
Level as a negative DM.
The Traveller will not be permitted entry to the secured
area with the weapon. It may be confiscated, or
returned to allow the Traveller to put it in his ship’s gun
locker where it belongs. The Traveller will be subject to
greater scrutiny when they next present themselves at
security, assuming they are allowed entry at all.

The Travellers’ fate is determined by rolling 2D on the
Sentencing table (see the Traveller Core Rulebook,
page 225), at DM-4.

Combat

Getting caught with very illegal weapons, or where the
Travellers are obviously trying to smuggle weaponry
into an area rather than just making a dumb mistake,
is grounds for arrest and a first-hand encounter with
the local judicial system. Any weapon two Law Levels
or more above what is legal (such as a military gauss
rifle in an area where only shotguns are permitted), or
which seems to be intended for criminal purposes, will
result in automatic arrest.

The Travellers may be able to circumvent this
process by various means, such as presenting faked
(or even real!) diplomatic identification documents,
bribing or suborning the guards, or otherwise
sidestepping the problem.

57

