RAVITY AND
RELATED EFFECTS

G

The gravitational forces experienced in an
environment can have very significant effects on
Travellers. The following general definitions are
useful as a starting point.
Gravity is rated in G, equivalent to the average
surface gravity on Earth. 1G of surface gravity
produces an acceleration on a falling object of 9.81
metres per second squared, usually rounded up to a
convenient 10m/s squared.
Microgravity is defined as ‘no significant gravitational
effects’ such as deep space or orbit around a planet, far
enough out that its gravity does not significantly affect
objects or people. Note that space vessels in orbit
are held by gravity but still experience no significant
gravitational effects on the crew.
Minimal Gravity is defined as where there is a
significant (noticeable) gravitational pull but less than
0.2G. In the Sol system, the surface of Pluto has
a gravity of 0.05G; Titan has 0.14G and the Moon
(Luna) has 0.17G. Most asteroids and moons have
minimal gravity conditions.
Very Low Gravity is between 0.2–0.4G and might
be encountered on a small planet like Mercury
(0.39G), or a larger but not very dense one like Mars
(0.38G). Very low gravity is sufficient to retain an
atmospheric envelope, although not a substantial
one. Small planets (Size 3 or less) typically have very
low gravity conditions and can retain only a trace
atmosphere. This is not sufficient to breathe even
with a compressor mask and a pressure suit would be
necessary for humans.
Low Gravity is between 0.4–0.7G and is sufficient to
support a decent atmosphere, although it would be
too thin for humans to breathe unaided. A pressure
suit would not be necessary in such an atmosphere,
although operating without one would be uncomfortable.
A compressor mask or air supply is necessary.
Standard Gravity falls in the range 0.7–1.4Gs and
allows the normal range of human activities without
many problems. Earth’s gravity is rated as 1G, with
Neptune (1.14G) and Saturn (1.11G) being higher
and Venus (0.91G) and Uranus (0.88G) being lower.

58

Normally a standard-gravity world can retain any
atmosphere type but extremely dense types are
unlikely. However, large worlds have deep enough
atmospheres to be extremely dense at low altitudes
even if gravity is not especially high.
High Gravity, ranging from 1.4–1.8G, is tolerable
by humans for extended periods but unaccustomed
individuals will tire quickly and accidental injuries are
likely. High gravity worlds tend to have thick,
dense atmospheres.
Extreme Gravity (upwards of 1.8G) is dangerous
and not commonly encountered (Jupiter’s ‘surface’
gravity of 2.33G is an exception but it is not possible
for humans to survive there so the point is academic).
Note that humans can tolerate much higher forces
for short periods, especially if they are oriented
properly or have the correct equipment. For example,
a race driver may walk away from a crash in which
he momentarily experienced as much as 250G and
fighter pilots can remain conscious in a brief 9G turn.
However, just a couple of G in the wrong direction
(forcing blood into the brain instead of out of it) can
cause ‘red out’ and render the same pilot helpless.
Low and high gravity conditions are primarily
important to Travellers with a propensity for falling off
things but unusual gravity makes all manner of tasks
increasingly tricky. It also affects the sort of plants
and animals that exist in the environment. High
gravity worlds typically have vegetation that clings
to surfaces whilst creatures tend to be squat and
compact. Lower gravity environments produce taller
creatures and plants.

Gravity Types
World Size Code

Gravity Type

0

Microgravity

1–2

Minimal

3–4

Very Low

5–6

Low

7–8

Standard

9–10

High

Unusually large, dense planet

Extreme

