Very dense worlds can have higher than average
gravity for their size – although normally no more than
one or two categories higher. Similarly, some worlds
are composed of low-density materials and may have
gravity a category lower than indicated.

OPERATING IN MICROGRAVITY

Sometimes referred to as zero-gravity, microgravity
is a situation where gravitational forces are minimal.
However, this does not mean objects lack mass or
inertia. A cargo crate that has started moving will still
crush a Traveller and require some force to get it
moving or to stop. Operating in microgravity can be
tricky and sometimes dangerous.
Microgravity is encountered aboard space craft
without artificial gravity (or devices like spin sections
to simulate it) and when operating on or around very
small bodies like comets or small moonlets. For
example, Deimos, one of the moons of Mars, has a
surface gravity of 0.0004G and can be considered a
microgravity environment.
One of the hidden hazards of microgravity is that
objects do not fall. That means something moving
towards a Traveller will get there eventually; it will not
drop to the deck and stop. Similarly, a Traveller who
loses contact with other objects can end up stranded
just centimetres from something they could grab or
push themself off. It is possible to jump off a small
body like an asteroid and simply float away into the
void. Thus it is commonplace for spacers to use tethers
when working in such an environment, even if thrusters
and reaction packs are available for manoeuvring.

Microgravity is an entirely alien environment for most.
Objects do not behave as they ‘should’ and even
concepts like up and down can become confused.

OPERATING IN LOW GRAVITY

At the higher end of the low-gravity spectrum,
operating in low gravity is not difficult even for those
unaccustomed to it. Little mistakes are common, such as
failing to estimate how fast an object will fall or moving
too quickly and losing balance, but the single biggest
problem for most is poor contact with the ground.
Those raised in a normal gravity environment tend to
take it for granted that they will be firmly rooted when
they carry out an action. However, this may not be
the case unless they take due care, which can lead to
overbalancing even when doing something as simple
as reaching for an object on a shelf or opening a
refrigerator door. Steps also tend to be quite long and
bounding, which can result in a lack of coordination
between legs and body.
For every 0.25G difference between the gravity a
Traveller is used to and the gravity they experience,
DM-1 is imposed on all physical actions. Assume a
‘home’ gravity of 1G for most people living and working
in space, as most space stations and a starships are
maintained at this level. The DM is increased by +1 for
every level of the character’s highest relevant skill, up
to DM+0. Normally this will be Athletics (dexterity) or
Vacc Suit but others may be used if applicable.

FIGHTING IN LOW-G AND MICROGRAVITY
Fighting in low gravity can be a tricky business
for those not used to it. Objects do not fall in the
expected manner, projectiles follow a flatter path
and it is very hard to absorb any sort of force without
being pushed or disorientated. In low gravity there is
less force holding a Traveller to the ground and it is
therefore much more difficult to establish a solid base
to fight or shoot from.
Hand weapons are particularly difficult to use as they
require interaction with the environment (usually the
ground) to enable the user to generate force. An
inexperienced combatant might send himself bouncing
off the walls instead of delivering a powerful cutlass
blow. Most projectile weapons generate sufficient recoil
to send the firer spinning and for this reason energy
weapons such as lasers are often favoured by those
expecting to fight in low gravity conditions.

GRAVITY AND RELATED EFFECTS

Despite the fact that microgravity is sometimes called
‘free-fall’, there is no such thing as falling in the
conventional sense in this environment. It is, however,
possible to float at some speed for a considerable
distance and smash into something. The Traveller
does not accelerate as they would in a true fall but will
be helpless to avoid a collision unless they can grab
something or otherwise arrest their movement. Thus it
is reasonable to say that actions taken in microgravity
have permanent consequences and need to be
considered in that light before acting. Those who want
to jump from one handhold to another need to be very
skilled and not make any mistakes.

Anyone who does not have experience of microgravity
(indicated by the possession of skills such as Athletics
(dexterity) and Vacc Suit) suffers DM-2 on all physical
actions, even if firmly anchored.

59

