T

As per the Traveller Core Rulebook, any Traveller
who uses a ranged weapon that does not have the
Zero-G trait, or who attacks with a melee weapon,
must make an Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity)
check to avoid spinning out of control. The attack
automatically misses if this is failed. If the Traveller
has the Profession (hostile environment) skill, this
may be substituted for the Athletics check. This also
allows the Traveller to use a weapon that delivers 1D
of damage per level of skill without having to make the
check at all; this includes melee weapons.
A Traveller who is disoriented after failing this check
will fall to the ground, albeit slowly, and be brought
to a stop. This takes D3 rounds, during which they
can try to orient themselves with an Average (8+)
Athletics (dexterity) check, although Profession
(hostile environment/low-G) can be used instead. In
microgravity or true zero-G conditions, the Traveller will
spin forever if something does not stop them.

GRAVITY AND RELATED EFFECTS

Another Traveller can rescue them by grabbing them
but this risks both going out of control. A Routine (6+)
Athletics (dexterity) check is needed to avoid being
sent out of control whilst undertaking a rescue.

60

If the spinning Traveller wants to carry on fighting
regardless, or take some action other than selfrescue, all checks are subject to DM-2. It is possible
to shoot a firearm or make an attack in such a way
as to counteract the spin but this is highly unlikely to
succeed. Both the attack and chance to correct the spin
are subject to the usual penalty for doing two things
at once, so the Traveller needs to make Difficult (10+)
check to attack and to right themselves, whilst subject
to DM-2 for being out of control in the first place.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

High gravity also causes Travellers to fatigue very
rapidly. A Traveller undertaking intense activity such as
hard physical labour or hand-to-hand combat, reduces
their effective END by -2 each round. This END is
recovered at the rate of 1 point per round of rest. If it
reaches zero, the Traveller can do nothing but gasp for
breath until effective END is once again positive.
All Travellers not adapted to a very high gravity
environment (perhaps by way of genetic or cybernetic
enhancement) suffer DM-4 to all actions. This DM can
be reduced by one for every level of Profession (hostile
environment/high-G) the Traveller has. An Effect of -6
on any action, even something as simple as firing a
weapon, indicates the Traveller has strained themselves,
fallen over, or otherwise fallen foul of the high-G
conditions. They take 1D damage, ignoring armour.
This will happen even to Travellers with the Profession
(hostile environment/high-G) skill, but is less likely.
Extremely high gravity – anything over 2.5G – cannot
be tolerated for more than a few moments without
artificial assistance. Someone strapped into an
acceleration couch can still operate controls even
under extreme gravity conditions but moving around
unsupported becomes virtually impossible. All tasks
suffer DM- 8, again reduced by the level of Profession
(hostile environment/high-G) the Traveller possesses
and the consequences of a mishap (Effect -6 or worse
on any check) is 2D damage.

FIGHTING IN HIGH-GRAVITY

Fighting in a high-G environment is subject to the
penalties above. There are no additional penalties,
although projectile weapons are reduced in range. For
every G above 1, projectile weapon ranges are halved;
this does not apply to energy weapons such as lasers.

OPERATING IN HIGH GRAVITY

CHANGING GRAVITY

High gravity makes even simple tasks tiring and often
more dangerous. Falls in particular are extremely
dangerous and it can be difficult to estimate how much
effort will be needed to carry out a given task. As a
result, DM-1 is applied to all tasks for every 0.25G
difference between the Traveller’s home gravity and
their current environment.

One technique used by spacer crews to defeat
boarders is grimly named ‘grav pong’, consisting of
using artificial gravity to repeatedly smash intruders
against the deck. Most ships and stations have
unidirectional artificial gravity, i.e. the field cannot
be reversed to send a victim up to the ceiling before
pulling them back down, but such as system could
be implemented. Likewise, few designers are willing
to go to the expense of creating long corridors
with dedicated gravity systems that turn them into
deathtraps. There are still ways that a Traveller might
fall ‘along’ a corridor, however.

R

