More commonly, grav pong takes the form of cutting
artificial gravity in an area then turning it back on.
Anyone caught may be able to position themselves so
they land feet-first when the gravity comes back on,
in which case they suffer no harm. This requires an
Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity) check. Those who
fail the check tumble when the gravity is cut. If they do
not reorient themselves in time, they will fall awkwardly,
although not from any great height. The result is 1D
damage from a normal internal gravity system. This
damage is reduced to D3 if the Traveller makes a
Difficult (10+) Athletics (dexterity) check or uses a
similar relevant skill such as Vacc Suit.

GRAVITY, G-FORCES AND FALLING

Per the Traveller Core Rulebook, falling damage in
normal gravity environment is 1D per two metres fallen,
plus 1D per four metres in a high-gravity (up to 2G)
environment and minus 1D per four metres in a lowgravity environment. The following rules can be used to
replace this system.

FALL-LIKE SITUATIONS

As noted elsewhere, ‘falling’ as such does not really
happen in microgravity, although a fast-moving
Traveller might crash into something. A Traveller can
be subjected to a fall-like situation if a starship begins
accelerating with the internal gravity turned off, making
long fore-and-aft corridors dangerous. If artificial gravity
is on, Travellers will be in contact with the floor or other
surfaces and will not slide far. If they are floating around
unsecured, they will ‘fall’ along the corridor. Aboard a
high-G ship this can be fatal, although it is possible to
slow the ‘fall’ by friction with the sides of the corridor.

A Traveller may reduce the effective G-force
experienced by the Effect (in Gs) of an Average (8+)
Athletics (dexterity) check. Microgravity imposes
DM-2 on all skill checks for those without relevant
skills; this applies despite there being a gravity-like
effect occurring.
Gravity-like effects greater than 2Gs increase
falling damage.

G force Experienced
(World Size Code)

Damage from Falling

Microgravity (Size 0)

None

Minimal Gravity (Size 1–2)

1D-3 per 2 metres fallen

Very Low Gravity (Size 3–4) 1D-2 Per 2 metres fallen
Low Gravity (Size 5–6)

1D-1 per 2 metres fallen

Normal Gravity (Size 7–8)

1D per 2 metres fallen

High Gravity (up to 1.6G)
(Size 9–10)

1D+2 per 2 metres fallen

Very High Gravity (up to 2G) 1D+4 per 2 metres fallen
3–4G

1D per metre fallen

5–6G

2D per metre fallen

7–8G

3D per metre fallen

Each 2G thereafter

+1D per metre fallen

SOFT AND HARD LANDINGS
Falling damage assumes the Traveller falls on
something hard such as rock or hard earth. A
more yielding surface such as water or springy turf
reduces the effective distance of a fall by 20%. A very
yielding surface such as a deep pile of hay reduces
fall distance by 40%.
Travellers who fall onto a surface that can cause
damage in its own right may suffer harm even if the fall
does none. A modestly hazardous surface like rough
rocks inflicts +1D damage on the Traveller, whilst very
hazardous surfaces with numerous sharp edges and
points inflict +2D damage. Extremely hazardous areas
festooned with stalagmites or artificial spikes will inflict
+4D damage in addition to the fall. Armour protects
normally against this damage.

COLLISIONS AND FALLING OBJECTS

A fall is, in reality, a form of collision between a small
object (like a Traveller) and a large one (like a planet).
However, it is simpler to consider the incident only in
the context of the Traveller. Likewise, the effect on one
object is often irrelevant, such as when an out of control
vacc-suited Traveller slams into a cargo container. The
container can be assumed to have suffered minimal
damage at most. Collisions between smaller objects
might have more mutually detrimental effects.

GRAVITY AND RELATED EFFECTS

In a fall-like situation like this, treat the distance the
Traveller is accelerated for as the distance fallen.
This will usually be the distance they travel before
hitting an object but if the ship’s drives are only on
for a moment the Traveller will coast the rest of the
way and be hurt less.

Falling Damage

61

