T

A small but reasonably heavy thrown object can
be assumed to do 1D damage. Something heavier
like a rock that requires both hands to throw would
normally do 2D. This assumes a short fall or an
object thrown by muscle power. Larger or heavier
objects will do more damage.

GRAVITY AND RELATED EFFECTS

Vehicle or starship-sized objects will normally crush
something as insignificant as a Traveller into a pulp.
For expediency, the Referee may invoke this ‘meat
paste’ rule for anyone hit by a falling object the size of a
vehicle or starship.

62

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Worn armour does not help against collisions with
large objects. It will protect normally against a thrown
rock or similar object but larger objects will crush
armour and inflict damage right through it. Flexible
armour has no effect on impacts with large objects
but there are exceptions:
• Rigid armour such as battle dress or a hostile
environment suit protects at full value against
crushing impacts.
• A Traveller wearing a hard hat or suitable helmet
may count this at full value against damage
inflicted by an object falling from above.

DAMAGE FROM FALLING OBJECTS

A Traveller who has no warning cannot avoid
something falling on them, except by blind luck.
In the situation where a Traveller is caught in a
meteorite shower or under falling rocks, the Referee
might call for an Average (8+) check with no skill or
attribute applying (Luck could be used if it has been
used as an additional characteristic). A Traveller who
fails the check takes a number of dice damage equal
to the negative Effect of the roll. Armour will usually
protect in this case.

The damage inflicted by a falling object depends upon
its mass and local gravity conditions. The object will
usually suffer the same amount of damage but this is
rarely relevant:
• Light objects include relatively small but dense
items like a rifle magazine or can of soup.
• Medium objects are equivalent to a fist-sized rock.
• Heavy objects are equivalent to a head-sized rock.
• Very Heavy objects are equivalent to a large rock
that can be picked up in both hands.

However, if the Traveller looks up in time or is
otherwise warned, they have two chances to mitigate
or avoid damage. Both of these apply to falling
objects and other collisions.

Larger objects the size of vehicles (anything that
requires more than one person to lift it fits into this
category) are also rated light to very heavy but are
considered to be Destructive objects when hitting a
Traveller. Any modifier to damage is also multiplied by
ten, so a light vehicle falling six metres in heavy gravity
will do 6D+6 damage, multiplied by 10:
• Light vehicles are equivalent to a motorcycle or
large animal like a horse.
• Medium vehicles are equivalent to a small family
car or very large and heavy animal such as a rhino.
• Heavy vehicles are equivalent to a minibus or
similarly large vehicle, or an elephant.
• Very Heavy vehicles are equivalent to an
articulated truck or gigantic animal such as a
whale. Being hit by a falling whale is grounds for
both using the ‘meat paste’ rule and asking some
questions about the Traveller’s lifestyle.

First, the Traveller may dive, roll, scramble or otherwise
get out of the way. This requires an Average (8+)
Athletics (dexterity) check. If the object is vehiclesized or larger, DM-4 applies. A starship-sized object
increases the penalty to DM-12. Of course, a falling
boulder the size of a merchant starship falling at great
speed is not only a starship-sized object, it is also a
fairly significant geophysical event.
If the Traveller makes their check, they get out of the
way and suffer no damage. If they fail, they suffer
the damage determined on the Falling Objects table.
However, it is possible to mitigate the effects to
some extent.
A Traveller about to be hit by a falling object or
otherwise involved in a collision may attempt an
Athletics (dexterity) check (with no penalties for the
size of the object) to roll with the collision, try to bounce
off rather than take the full impact, or at least to cover
their head and take the worst of it on their arms rather
than skull. If the check is successful, damage from the
collision is reduced by 1 point per dice.

There is really no way a Traveller can survive being
hit by a falling spaceship. However, for completeness
we will consider various starship-grade objects in
case a collision between a train and a horse occurs
and someone absolutely insists on rolling all the dice.

R

