Falling Objects

DETERMINING DAMAGE FROM COLLISIONS

Object

Damage from and to Object

Light Object

1D per metre fallen

Medium Object

2D per metre fallen

Heavy Object

3D per metre fallen

Very Heavy Object

4D per metre fallen

Gravity

Damage Modifier

Low Gravity

-1 per dice

High Gravity (up to 2g) +1 per dice
Each 2g thereafter

+1 additional damage per dice

A starship-sized object counts as Doubly Destructive
when hitting something smaller, multiplying the
damage by 100:
• Light starships are equivalent to a cargo shuttle
or maritime patrol boat. A light railroad train,
consisting of just a couple of carriages, would also
count as a light starship.
• Medium starships are equivalent to a corvette or
maritime combat vessel. A large goods train would
also be considered an object of this type.
• Heavy starships are equivalent to a maritime or
space-going frigate, or a small freighter.
• Very Heavy starships are equivalent to a
maritime or space-going light cruiser, or a midsized freighter.
• Huge starships include heavy cruisers or large
liners. Such an object would roll 5D per metre
fallen, with modifiers, if it really matters.
• Enormous starships include battleships and bulk
freighters. Damage would be 6D per metre fallen,
with modifiers.

When two Travellers run into one another, the results
tend to be survivable. However, being run into by a
train or charging rhino is a rather more serious event. In
a collision, an object delivers damage equal to 1D per
Speed Band it was travelling at, modified by the relative
size of the object as per falling damage on page 61.
A person or similar sized object that is free to move
will simply be pushed aside by a vehicle or starship
travelling at Idle. No damage is taken if the Traveller
can make an Average (8+) Athletics (dexterity) check.
Armour does not normally protect against the impact
or crushing effect of a collision. However, it will protect
against additional damage caused by projections,
spikes, antlers or other potentially dangerous parts of a
creature or vehicle.
Travellers inside a vehicle that collides with something
will usually be thrown around and collide with internal
surfaces. Damage from such a collision is 1D per
Speed Band of the collision, modified as follows:
• A normal vehicle or starship will absorb some of
the energy of impact, reducing the damage by 1D.
• A vehicle designed to protect its occupants (with
crumple zones and airbags, for example) reduces
damage by 2D.
• If the Traveller is strapped into a seat with a good
harness, such as a pilot’s chair, damage is reduced
by an additional 1D.
• A survival cocoon or similar device designed to
protect its occupants reduces damage by an
additional 2D, provided the occupants are properly
secured in crash seats or couches.

GRAVITY AND RELATED EFFECTS
63

