ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM
Humans and most similar creatures need a particular
mix of gases, at roughly the right temperature and
pressure, to survive. Even if these conditions are met
there may be something in the air that is harmful or
even fatal. A fluid environment such as underwater is
an atmosphere of sorts, although the greater densities
of fluids result in a much quicker increase in pressure
as depth increases.

PRESSURE
Almost any conceivable kind of creature requires
gas or fluid around it to balance its own internal
pressure. A science-fiction game like Traveller can
stretch a point to allow extremely low-pressure or
even vacuum dwelling animals, but they are likely to
be rare and highly unusual.
The baseline for measuring atmospheric pressure is
that of Earth’s atmosphere at sea level, a measure
imaginatively known as one Atmosphere. The following
general levels of pressure are used in Traveller:

64

Very Thin Atmospheres (Atmosphere 2–3) are
experienced on Earth in places like the top of Mount
Everest, where pressure is about a third of an
Atmosphere. This is enough to support respiration for
a period but not indefinitely. Effects such as nausea,
disorientation and dizziness become gradually worse
until the subject becomes incapable of functioning
coherently. It is possible that creatures could develop
which are adapted to these conditions.
Thin Atmospheres (Atmosphere 4–5) can be
tolerated indefinitely by humans who have become
acclimatised but those who are not used to the thin air
may be prone to altitude sickness, which can cause
confusion, headaches and nausea. Even individuals
not affected by altitude sickness will tire quickly and not
rest well until they become used to the conditions. The
equivalent on Earth is encountered at altitudes from
about 2,000 to 4,000 metres, in pressures of around
two-thirds of an Atmosphere.

Hard Vacuum (Atmosphere 0) means there is no (or
virtually no) gas pressure. Hard vacuum will render
humans unconscious in 10–15 seconds or so and kill
them within two or three minutes.

Standard Atmospheres (Atmosphere 6–7) are
roughly comparable with that found on Earth at sea
level, to within a third greater or less pressure. This
is optimal for the comfort and well-being of most
Terran humans, although those adapted to different
environments may be uncomfortable.

Partial Vacuum (Atmosphere 0) means there may be
some air or other gases present but full protective gear
is needed. Partial vacuum will kill a human about half
as fast as hard vacuum, basically just ensuring the
victim suffers for a while longer.

Dense Atmospheres (Atmosphere 8–9) with a
pressure up to 2 Atmospheres can be uncomfortable
for normal humans but are breathable. The combination
of dense atmosphere and high humidity produces a
sensation rather like drowning.

Trace (or minimal) Atmosphere (Atmosphere 1) is
not breathable by humans but will not kill them quickly.
Enough gas pressure exists that an unprotected
person could function for a few minutes so long as
an air supply was available. Prolonged exposure will
be harmful, however, so pressure suits are advisable
except in extreme emergencies. Life is possible
in these conditions but not in forms commonly
encountered on Earth.

Extremely Dense Atmospheres (Atmosphere 10–13)
of greater than 2 atmospheres pressure can be coped
with for short periods with careful compression and
decompression, and a suitable air supply (in the
manner used by divers), but without careful pressure
adjustment and support equipment humans cannot
survive in this environment.

