Superdense Atmospheres such as those found on
Venus or gas giant planets are totally unbreathable to
humans, no matter what their gas composition may
be. The pressure may cause physical damage long
before breathing becomes an issue. A superdense
atmosphere would normally be assigned a code of 15 –
unusual – (if they were given one at all) as they lie well
beyond the normal range.

BREATHING DIFFICULTIES
Most creatures can withstand a degree of imbalance
between their internal pressure and conditions
outside but major changes of pressure, especially
sudden ones, can cause severe harm. Physical
effects such as tissue damage require very low
pressure but a Traveller may encounter respiratory
difficulties long before pressure becomes low enough
to cause direct harm.
Low pressure reduces the availability of oxygen,
which can have rapid and obvious effects or be
more insidious. Those who are acclimatised to lower
pressures can function normally, although there is a limit
to how little oxygen a Traveller can get by on. Those
not acclimatised will often display symptoms of altitude
sickness or in more serious cases be distressed and
unable to process enough oxygen. Starships normally
alter their internal conditions slowly whilst in jump,
allowing passengers to arrive already acclimatised.
One way to deal with the problem of lacking enough
air is to use a compressor system or air supply. Most
forms of armour do not include an air supply and are
therefore no use against respiratory hazards, but
some military systems do incorporate emergency
breathing equipment.

Assuming there is sufficient atmospheric pressure to
avoid other problems, a Traveller can hold their breath
for a number of combat rounds equal to their END
under conditions of moderate activity. This includes
walking briskly, struggling to open the emergency
breathing gear locker or swimming underwater.
Heavy activity such as fighting or running uses up air
much faster. Roll D3 for every round of such activity;
this is how many rounds’ worth of normal activity have
been used up. A Traveller undertaking very light activity
such as moving slowly and carefully, or who is keeping
still trying to conserve oxygen, will double the time
before they need to breathe.
Once this time is exceeded, the Traveller must make
an Athletics (endurance) check each round to continue
holding their breath. Difficulty starts at Simple and
increases one level every other round until it reaches
Formidable. Sooner or later this roll will be failed but it
is possible to hold one’s breath for a long time at need.
Once the roll is failed, the Traveller must breathe in.
This may mean taking in a lungful of smoke, water or
toxic gas mix, or trying to breathe something that will
not support respiration but causes no direct harm. If
the Traveller breathes in something harmful mixed
with breathable air, the effects will depend upon the
substance breathed in. Neutral gases, water and the
like do not cause harm as such; they simply do not
provide any oxygen. This will kill the Traveller in a
short time. Each round they are unable to breathe,
they suffer 1D damage.

ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM

Many breathing systems are simply a mask with
either bottled air or means of obtaining a breathable
gas mix from the outside environment. Examples
include compressor masks, which draw in the outside
air and compress it sufficiently that the user can
breathe easily. Filter systems, or combination filter/
compression systems, are necessary when the
outside air contains a harmful substance. An artificial
gill preforms a similar function in water, drawing in
oxygen and storing it for use.

Filter or compressor based units are little use when
immersed in liquid but most bottled-air systems will
allow breathing in any environment that does not require
a sealed suit. A simple face mask is sufficient where
air pressure is very low or the Traveller is operating
in a gas mix that is not harmful but which they cannot
breathe. In extremely low pressure environments or
vacuum, a sealed pressure suit is needed to protect
against the environment – humans need a certain gas
or liquid pressure around them to function properly. For
very low pressure and vacuum environments, a sealed
suit is required. A vacc suit or similar garment maintains
pressure around the body as well as providing air.

65

