T

In the case of breathing harmful substances alongside
useful air, the Traveller will not immediately begin to
suffocate but will still take damage. Some chemicals
or substances will have additional effects, depending
on their nature. For example, a cloud of spores
might cause problems breathing and also have a
hallucinogenic effect. This is dealt with under the
chemicals and diseases rules on page 71.

DECOMPRESSION
Decompression occurs when a vacc suit or
spacecraft compartment loses its ability to contain
air, or when air is deliberately removed from a
compartment. This will expose Travellers to vacuum
or very low pressures, and may also have secondary
effects such as objects being flung around by the
rush of escaping atmosphere.
Explosive Decompression takes place when a
pressurised suit or space craft is suddenly and
seriously holed, or a hull section fails. Internal pressure
will quickly push out all the air, along with anything else
that is not properly secured.

ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM

When a compartment explosively decompresses,
the occupants will be flung around (this does not
apply to suits that are suddenly holed). Everyone
within the compartment must pass an Average
(8+) Vacc Suit or Athletics (dexterity) check to grab
something and secure themselves, or they will be
propelled towards the breach. If they are fortunate,
these Travellers will strike something on the way.
This inflicts 2D damage but gives the Traveller an
extra chance to grab hold of something.

66

Assuming the breach is not so huge that there is
no chance to impact an intact part of the wall or
bulkhead, Travellers have a final chance to avoid
going straight out of the hole. Another Athletics or
Vacc Suit check can be made and, if passed, the
Traveller snags on wreckage or impacts an intact
section of bulkhead. This causes an additional 3D
damage. Those who are unlucky go straight out of the
breach into open space, possible ripping themselves
to pieces on jagged edges in the process.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In the round that a catastrophic suit breach occurs
or a compartment is holed, explosive decompression
takes place as noted above. The following round the
compartment is in a state of a Partial Vacuum and all
Travellers will be harmed accordingly. The round after
that it will be a complete (hard) vacuum and will remain
so until sealed and re-pressurised.
Round 0: Explosive Decompression effects
Round 1: Partial Vacuum
Round 2+: Hard Vacuum
See page 66-67 for the effects of partial and hard
vacuum exposure.
Rapid Decompression is not quite so serious. It
occurs when a minor breach is made and air begins to
escape. Although there will be discomfort and possibly
damage to eardrums and the like from rapidly dropping
pressure, any Travellers in the breached compartment
have a little time to self-rescue. Small objects may be
flung towards the breach but the escape of air will not
be fast enough to endanger humans.
Rapid decompression takes place over several combat
rounds. In the round the compartment is holed, the
situation is apparent but occupants take no immediate
damage. The Referee should secretly roll D3. This is
the number of rounds for the atmospheric pressure to
fall to dangerous levels. After these rounds a minimal
atmosphere exists in the compartment. The Referee
should then roll another D3. This is the number of
rounds until pressure can be considered a partial
vacuum. D3 rounds after that, all the air is gone and
occupants are exposed to hard vacuum.
See below for the effects of minimal atmospheres,
partial and hard vacuum:
Round 0: No harmful effects but decompression
becomes noticeable.
Stage 1: Roll D3. Atmospheric conditions can be
considered normal for this many rounds.
Stage 2: Roll D3. Minimal pressure conditions exist for
this many rounds.
Stage 3: Roll D3. Partial Vacuum conditions exist for
this many rounds.
Stage 4: Hard Vacuum now exists.

R

