VACUUM EXPOSURE AND
EXTREMELY LOW PRESSURE

PARTIAL EXPOSURE AND
SUIT BREACHES

Minimal Pressures can be tolerated (at great
discomfort) for a Traveller’s END in minutes providing
they have air to breathe, e.g. from an emergency mask
and bottle. If they have not, they will die of hypoxia long
before the lack of air pressure harms them. However,
in the case where a Traveller is, say, trying to cross a
low-pressure compartment wearing just a firefighter’s
air supply (i.e. they have bottled air but no pressure
suit) they will be uncomfortable but unharmed for the
period above. After this, END is reduced by 1 point per
minute. Unconsciousness occurs when END reaches 0,
at which point damage is taken alternately by STR and
DEX until the Traveller dies.

A breached vacc suit will cause exposure to vacuum
with the effects described previously. Most suits have
a measure of self-sealing capacity and the internal
pressure of the Traveller’s body will often push their
flesh against a small breach and partially seal it, so that
only the local area is exposed.

The following effects assume a Traveller is totally
exposed, i.e. wearing nothing more protective than
normal clothing. Breathing equipment is not relevant
here – low pressure causes damage by exposure
whether or not the Traveller has enough air to breathe.
Protection requires a sealed pressurised suit. Correctly
speaking, low pressure and vacuum exposure should
be combined with hypoxia/suffocation effects but a
vacuum-exposed Traveller is in enough trouble already.

Partial Vacuum cannot be tolerated by unprotected
humans for long, whether they have an air supply or
not. The fact that there is a little air pressure enables
the Traveller to survive a while longer but not much.
A Traveller who is exposed to partial vacuum suffers
1D damage per round, with unconsciousness and
death occurring as above.

To cause explosive decompression from a vacc
suit, it would be necessary to shred it, shatter the
helmet or at least rip it right open, very suddenly.
Most of the ways this might happen would render
decompression effects academic.
Less severe suit breaches are possible without
killing the suit’s occupant, or at least leaving enough
of them to suffer decompression effects. Rapid
decompression is possible if a helmet or limb seal failed
catastrophically, or the faceplate shatters. In this case,
the suit would still offer some protection if it covers at
least part of the wearer. Otherwise, the Traveller will
usually still be able to breathe as air leaks out. They
will be partially exposed to vacuum but able to continue
functioning, perhaps conducting a self-rescue.

Vacuum Damage
Suit Breach

Hard Vacuum

Partial Vacuum

Minimal Atmosphere

No Protection

2D damage per round

1D damage per round.

1 Point of damage per minute after
END in minutes

Suit with Major Breach 2D-4 damage per round

1D-2 damage per round

1 point of damage Reduction per 90
seconds after END x 2 in minutes

Suit with Minor Breach 2D-8 damage per round

1D-4 damage per round

1 point of damage Reduction per 120
seconds after END x 3 in minutes

ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM

Hard Vacuum is even more dangerous. Travellers
exposed to hard vacuum suffers a cumulative 1D
damage each round, suffering 1D damage the first
round, 2D the second and so on. A typical person will
be unconscious in one to three combat rounds (about
6–18 seconds) and dead soon afterwards.

The previous effects assume a Traveller in their
shirtsleeves, exposed to the hazard. However, partial
protection is possible. A Traveller in a sealed vacc suit
is completely safe but if their suit becomes damaged
they may be partially exposed. A minor suit breach
such as a gunshot wound (or several) allows the suit to
continue providing some protection. A major suit breach
such as a rip caused by jagged debris or knife slash
allows the suit to offer a minimal level of protection. In
some cases, a suit may have a minor malfunction and
cause a body part to be slightly exposed. This is not
very serious except over long periods.

67

