T

As a rule, a shattered faceplate, major failed seal,
or a suit torn open by debris or a blade weapon will
allow the Traveller to continue to function – or, at least,
remain conscious and suffer as they die of vacuum
exposure. A smaller breach such as a minor seal
failure or gunshot wound will allow air to escape rapidly
from the suit but it will continue to provide sufficient
protection that the Traveller will remain conscious and
be able to act, so may well be able to self-rescue.
A Minor Suit Breach exposes the wearer to outside
conditions but reduces damage by 4 points per
dice (i.e. hard vacuum causes a cumulative 2D-8
damage per round).
A Major Suit Breach exposes the wearer to outside
conditions but reduces damage by 2 points per
dice (i.e. hard vacuum causes a cumulative 2D-4
damage per round).
Slight Exposure caused by a minor suit malfunction
such as a faulty glove seal causes minor localised
effects. The Traveller takes one point of damage after
his END in minutes, repeated at the same interval.
A Minor Breach in a vacc suit occurs when there is a
short tear, failed seam or puncture wound resulting
from a gunshot or similar occurrence. A Major Breach
occurs when a suit’s faceplate is shattered or the suit
has a significant hole in it such as that caused by a
slashing weapon doing six or more points of damage
above the suit’s Protection.

ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM

HIGH PRESSURE

68

High pressure can also be a problem, although
it is more likely to be a plot element or additional
complication than a direct hazard. After operating in
a very high pressure environment, Travellers have to
undergo careful decompression which can take several
hours. This is not the stuff of exciting adventures in
the far future. Thus deep water and extremely dense
atmospheres are normally tackled in a manner that
protects the Travellers from them, such as deep-diving
suits, submarines or special exploration starships.
Extreme environments like this are an all-or-nothing
proposition. If the Travellers remain protected, they
are fine. If not, they die almost immediately. This can
be useful for creating threats, tension and barriers in

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

an adventure but it does limit what the Travellers can
do in such an environment. Less extreme situations
are unlikely to be immediately harmful and may be
encountered in the course of a game.
High-pressure atmospheres can make it difficult to
breathe and have a tendency to force their way into
suits and vehicles through seals that would keep
atmosphere inside against a vacuum. This is why
spacecraft do not make good submarines – keeping
air pressure in against a vacuum means operating
at a differential of one Atmosphere (i.e. the mean
pressure of Earth’s atmosphere at sea level),
whereas even just a few tens of metres down, water
pressure on the hull of a submerged vessel (and
all of its weak points) can be many times as much.
Extreme pressure can flatten a hull but seals will
normally fail long before this occurs.
On a world with normal gravity, water pressure
increases by one Atmosphere for every 10 metres
below the surface. Gas pressure increases much
more slowly with depth; for a standard atmosphere
world with gravity equivalent to that of earth, the
pressure at a depth of 10 kilometres below the surface
is around 2.9 atmospheres. At 50 kilometres, where
the earth’s crust meets the mantle, pressure would be
52 Atmospheres. At 100 kilometres, pressure would
be around 500 Atmospheres.
By way of comparison, atmospheric pressure at ‘sea
level’ (if such a thing existed) on a gas giant planet such
as Jupiter is estimated at around 990 Atmospheres.
Modestly high pressures are not directly harmful to
people but can cause secondary issues. A fluid depth of
30 metres exerts just 3 Atmospheres of pressure (plus
one for normal air pressure) but this is enough that
divers breathing bottled air risk nitrogen narcosis. This
produces an effect somewhat like drunkenness due to
the narcotic and anaesthetic effect of many gases at
high pressure. Nitrogen is the most common problem
since it makes up most of a standard air mix.
At a depth of 60 metres underwater, with about 7
Atmospheres of pressure on a diver, there is an
increasing risk of oxygen toxicity; the result of the body
retaining too much oxygen. A normal air mix at high
pressure will produce this effect, so those operating
under high pressures require a lower partial pressure
of oxygen. Similar effects can be encountered when
breathing very high concentrations of oxygen under
normal pressures – which means that high-oxygen
atmospheres can actually be unsafe for humans to
breathe as well as posing a serious fire hazard.

R

