T

Thus the average starship has more than sufficient
margin to skim fuel from a gas giant’s atmosphere but
this is not enough to dive deeper than the upper layers
(to hide from hostile vessels, for example) without
some risk to the vessel.
Ships specifically designed or heavily modified for
high-pressure operations can typically withstand 100
Atmospheres of pressure (about one kilometre of water
depth), which is enough to hide on the bed of a shallow
sea. Three times as much pressure could be tolerated
with increasingly rapid leakage and danger of serious
structural failure, which could cause a cascading hull
collapse. It might be possible to build a starship for
extreme pressure operations, for example to dive to the
bottom of a gas giant’s atmosphere, but this would be
inefficient and extremely expensive.
Getting water out of a spacecraft can be a challenge
unless it has been adapted for the task. The vessel’s
internal life support systems are not likely to be set
up for removing loose water but a clever crew might
be able to rig additional hoses to make use of the
ship’s existing systems.

ATMOSPHERE AND VACUUM

It is possible to undertake a set of modifications,
readying a starship for underwater operations. This
has the effect of tripling the tolerable depths and
adding pumps to remove leaked water and usually
includes the addition of an underwater manoeuvring
system. A modified ship is thus capable of operating at
a ‘safe’ depth of up to 300 metres and with some risk
down to about 900 metres.

70

By way of comparison, the continental shelves on Earth
are mostly less than 150 metres beneath the surface,
with an average depth of 60 metres, thus having a
pressure of about 6–15 Atmospheres. A standard
starship could sit on the bottom more or less indefinitely
but might suffer some leaks. A modified one could be
based there, or operate directly out of a seabed city.
Average ocean depth on Earth is about 3,700 metres,
giving a pressure of about 370 Atmospheres. This is
too much for even a hardened spacecraft to tolerate but
the seabed is not flat. A ship could probably locate a
seamount or ridge to lie upon. Exploring the very deep

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

oceans in a starship is not feasible, unless one were
specially developed to handle immense pressures; a
better alternative might be to use a submerged starship
as a base for deep-diving submersibles or robotic craft.

UNDERWATER ENVIRONMENTS

Water and other dense fluid mediums create a difficult
environment for combat and other operations. The
problem of breathing must of course be solved and
in addition water resistance makes many actions
impossible. Most conventional firearms will work
underwater but a projectile loses energy very quickly in
a dense medium. Some weapons, such as spearguns
and specialist firearms, are reasonably effective
underwater but ranges are still short.
Plasma weapons and similar devices pose a severe
threat to the user and anyone within a radius of three
metres. Firing any plasma weapon underwater causes
an explosion of superheated vapour that causes half
the weapon’s normal damage to the user and those
close by and an almighty bubble of gas heading for the
surface. The weapon is likely to be destroyed, whilst
anyone more than three metres away will not be greatly
harmed. The typical plasma gun is a 1DD weapon, i.e.
damage is usually rolled on one dice multiplied by 10.
In this case, a plasma gun would be treated as doing
10D damage and therefore inflicts 5D on its user.
Lasers suffer an extreme shortening of range; even
those keyed to wavelengths that travel well underwater
are inefficient compared to lasers firing through air or
vacuum. Similarly, most hand weapons are useless as
they cannot gain enough momentum to be effective.
Small sharp blades and stabbing implements retain
their usefulness, however.
When firing any laser or projectile weapon underwater,
other than one adapted to this environment, range is
reduced to a tenth of normal. Specialised underwater
weapons reduce their range by a fifth instead.
All close combat attacks are subject to DM-4 when
fighting underwater and blunt weapons are useless.
A long sharp blade can still be used to cut or stab but
it is awkward. The Referee may choose to disregard
the penalty if a Traveller is fighting with a specialised
underwater weapon or knife.

R

