D

ISEASES,
TOXINS AND CHEMICALS

The mechanics for dealing with the effects of harmful
substances are very similar, despite their origins being
quite different. We will use the term ‘agent’ as a catchall to describe these substances.
Agents can harm the victim in various ways. Some
interfere in the body’s natural processes whilst others
damage specific organs. Some biological agents
actively grow within the body, such as fungal spores,
whilst others cause diseases by viral or bacterial
infection. The details can vary significantly but for the
purposes of Traveller we are primarily interested in how
the agent is introduced to the body, the effects of the
agent, the time between exposure and the beginning of
the effects and whether the effects can be resisted.
It may also be important to know if an agent can
be passed from one person to another. As a rule
of thumb, diseases and biological agents can
often cause one host to infect other people but
non-biological agents generally cannot. There are
exceptions to both, however. The notes on any
specific agent will indicate its capabilities.
Agents can be divided into three basic types:
Biological agents are of natural origin, in that they
are created by life processes even if those processes
have been manipulated to create the agent. Viruses
and bacteria, parasites and biological toxins such as
snake venom all fall into this category, although they
have different capabilities. Most biological agents are
destroyed by heat (and sometimes cold) or radiation
– often including ultraviolet light – and will rapidly
become harmless if supporting life processes are
terminated. For example, a virus living in a person’s
body will usually cease to be dangerous within a few
hours after the death of the host.
Chemical agents are typically inert, i.e. they cannot
reproduce themselves but can usually survive
conditions that would destroy a biological agent. Toxic
chemicals remain toxic unless their nature is changed,
perhaps by reaction with a neutralising agent.

Energy-Based agents cause harm by damaging
living cells. The most obvious example is nuclear
radiation but various exotic forms of energy might exist
in a Traveller universe. Energy-based agents might
harm the victim directly, such as when a Traveller is
exposed to radiation in a solar flare, or might irradiate
an object which is then ingested or comes in contact
with skin. This is why radioactive fallout is dangerous
– radioactive dust can be breathed in or ingested, or
lie in contact with the skin and thus allow its radiation
to cause damage to the victim. Protection against
secondary hazards of this sort requires preventing
contact, perhaps by using a sealed suit and breathing
system. Direct radiation is harder to protect against,
requiring a material that absorbs the energy to be
placed between target and agent.

DELIVERY METHOD

The delivery method of the agent is important, since
avoiding exposure is the surest method of protection.
Some agents cannot affect a victim without getting into
the bloodstream. Skin is an effective barrier against
many such agents, providing it is not broken. Others
need to be ingested or inhaled and in many cases
will not have any effect unless they pass through the
respiratory or digestive system.
Ingested agents are the easiest to defend against.
If not eaten or drunk they cannot affect the victim.
Detection of many chemical agents is fairly easy due
to their odour or other characteristics. Some toxins
cannot be smelled or tasted and require the use of
technological sensors to detect.
Injected agents can be delivered by medical injection
but are more often encountered on the stingers or
fangs of hostile wildlife, or delivered as darts, needles
or bullets by projectile weapons. To have effect,
injected toxins must enter the bloodstream. This
normally requires breaking the skin or contact with
an open wound. Weapons that do no damage (other
than to deliver a chemical payload) will penetrate most
normal clothing but will be stopped by any form of
armour useful against projectiles. A weapon that does
some normal damage will fail to inject its toxin if it is
stopped by armour.

71

