T

Inhaled agents will affect anyone who breathes them
in. They generally take the form of a vapour but can
be a toxic gas, cloud of spores or dust. A Traveller who
is aware of a gas cloud may try to hold their breath
and run clear of it. To do so they must be aware of
the gas and make an immediate Athletics or Survival
check. Difficulty is at the Referee’s discretion and will
be higher if the Traveller must do something strenuous
such as force a heavy door, or if they are hit and take
damage. This check must be made each round the
Traveller is exposed to the airborne agent.
If the Traveller fails the check at any point, or fails to
notice the threat, they breathe in the gas and suffer
whatever effects may apply. A Traveller in a sealed
suit or who is wearing a respirator is immune to the
effects of most gases.
Contact agents may also be dangerous if breathed but
their primary mode of attack is by contact with skin or
mucous membranes such as eyes, throat and so forth.
Contact agents are usually in liquid or gaseous form
but may be spores, dust or even a large object such as
a strange monument made from a toxic metal.

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

Some creatures (and certain weapons) spray a
noxious chemical at enemies. Such a spray must hit
the target, usually in the face. This requires an attack
roll and is ineffective against Travellers wearing a fullface helmet or mask, although a coating of liquid can
make it hard to see.

72

Other gases require only contact with eyes to have
some effect, e.g. tear gas. A Traveller in a sealed suit
is immune but while a respirator will protect against
breathing in the gas and the effects thereof, eye
protection suitable to keep out gases is required. Thus
a respirator mask with integral goggles will protect
the user from tear gas and the equivalent chemical in
liquid spray form, while a visored security helmet will
stop the spray but not gas.
Some powerful chemicals need only be absorbed
through skin contact. A complete suit such as a vacc
suit or battle dress gives protection so long as it is kept
sealed and suitably decontaminated after exposure.
Other protection is marginally effective. Measures such
as covering as much skin as possible with clothing or
donning a breathing mask may be sufficient to reduce
exposure. A Traveller attempting such measures may
achieve partial protection.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A Traveller who is exposed to a skin-contact agent
may try to make an Athletics (dexterity) check to avoid
intoxication (by rushing into clear air). The difficulty
is decreased by one for partial protection as noted
previously and by an additional level if conditions are
not favourable for gas weapons (e.g. a windy day).
Radiant Agents are propagated by electromagnetic
radiation and may be powerful enough to penetrate
protection or intervening solid objects. The only effective
means of defence are barriers (such as protective
clothing or walls) and distance. Radiant agents can
usually be detected by appropriate instruments in time
to avoid moving into the danger area.
If a Traveller is exposed, they may still resist the effects
of the agent.

DETECTION OF AGENTS
Many agents can be detected by simple means.
Gas or spore clouds may be obvious to the naked
eye, although it may not be obvious that a mist or
dust is toxic. However, observation combined with
a knowledge of local conditions is often sufficient to
warn Travellers. If they know local swamps are prone
to clouds of toxic gas and they see a strange mist
over the nearby pond, they should be able to figure
out what is happening.
Other agents are relatively obvious but in other ways.
Many chemical toxins have an appearance or smell
that can give warning before full exposure occurs
and Recon and Survival skills are useful in providing
a warning. However, more subtle toxins may be
difficult to detect. An experienced outdoorsman
may know the signs of local hazards, or rules of
thumb about which plants and animals are safe to
eat. Likewise, those used to working with chemicals
will know that this combined with that produces
something dangerous and will be alert to the
possibility in a way a layman would not.
Figuring out that a toxic or harmful agent may
be present requires a Difficult (10+) Science check
(the speciality or sub-speciality depends upon the
type of agent). Success indicates the Traveller has
realised an agent is likely to be present in the local
environment, although this does not necessarily mean
a specific threat has been spotted.

R

