Spotting a threat requires a Difficult (10+) Recon or
Survival check. The difficulty is reduced to Routine (6+)
if the Traveller has studied the environment or been
informed that an agent may be present – after a couple
of brushes with spore or gas clouds, the Travellers will
become adept at spotting them.
Complex or subtle toxins can usually be detected
using chemical or biological instruments. Diseases,
on the other hand, generally require observation
of symptoms or analysis of samples. Since many
diseases have a period in which they can be
transmitted before they exhibit symptoms, there is a
real danger that an infected Traveller can spread a
disease, especially if they move over a wide area and
come into contact with many people.

EXPOSURE, DELAY AND INTERVAL

When a Traveller is initially exposed to an agent, it
is necessary to determine if they are affected by it.
In some cases the agent takes effect immediately
but often there is a delay before symptoms appear.
This may be due to the growth of spores, damaging
effects of a chemical, incubation of a disease or many
other factors but the effect is the same. In the case of
radiant weapons, the process is slightly different as
the cumulative dose of radiation is what matters. In
such cases the Referee should impose the effects of
exposure when the full dose has been taken, i.e. when
the Traveller has ceased to be exposed. The exception
is where ongoing exposure will produce symptoms
which will warn a Traveller of what is happening and
enable them to prevent further exposure.

Once a Traveller has been affected by an agent,
there may be a delay – sometimes quite a long one
– before the first effects appear. This may be the only
set of effects but many agents will produce repeated
effects over time. This is referred to the Interval of the
agent. The affected Traveller usually has a chance
to resist the effects each time they are applied and,
if successful, the agent no longer affects them. The
same process is used for diseases; much of the time
a Traveller’s body will eventually fight off the disease
if it does not kill them in the meantime. Persistent
diseases do exist but even then there is usually a cure
if advanced medical assistance is available.

For agents that may affect the victim more than once,
or over time, the Interval value indicates the time
between incidents. If the victim has a chance to resist
the effects, they may attempt to resist each time the
effect is applied and once an effect is resisted the
Traveller will – in most cases – no longer be affected
and may begin to recover. Occasionally an agent
may continue to attack the Traveller even after being
successfully resisted, such as a poison still present in
the body. In such cases, outside intervention is required
to remove the threat, otherwise it is only a matter of
time before the victim succumbs.

RESISTING AN AGENT

When a Traveller is exposed to any agent, they get
a chance to resist its effects. It may or may not be
obvious that they have failed to resist the agent. For
example, most diseases have an incubation period
before symptoms present themselves and some
chemical agents do not have an immediate effect. A
Traveller might be exposed to chlorine gas and think
they have escaped the effects, only to become ill
several hours later.
All harmful diseases, organisms and chemicals that
do not have a direct physical effect (e.g. acid, which
causes wounds in the normal manner) are rated
according to the difficulty of the END check required
to resist their effects. If the Effect of the check is
positive, the Traveller has not been affected; if it is
negative they have. If the Effect is exactly zero, then
in some cases the Traveller could become a carrier
for the disease or agent, or have a delayed onset of
symptoms. If so, a second attempt to resist the agent
is made when it finally manifests itself.
Remember that a properly protected Traveller cannot
be affected by an agent. For example, someone in a
gas-proof suit cannot be attacked by gas unless the
suit is breached or deliberately unsealed.

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

A Traveller cannot be affected by an agent if they are
not exposed to it, so someone who maintains vacc suit
protocol whilst in a disease area and undergoes proper
decontamination after leaving runs no risk unless a
critical error has been made.

The Referee might choose to determine if the Trveller
is affected at the time of exposure, or instead make the
determination after the agent’s Delay period, making
the determination at the point where symptoms would
appear. Effects are then applied and after the agent’s
Interval a new determination is made to see if the
Traveller is still affected or has begun to recover.

73

