DISEASES AND
BIOLOGICAL HAZARDS

Whilst diseases and biological weapons are treated
much the same as other agents, they can have
additional complications. A poison created by a
biological process is more or less the same as
a poisonous chemical but a biological threat will
typically infect the victim with a disease or disease-like
condition. This requires a longer period to take effect
than a chemical-based agent. Thus whilst a chemical
agent (such as nerve gas) tends to kill instantly or
quickly, a biological agent is more insidious.
A biological threat must get into the body, just as with a
chemical agent. A Traveller in a sealed suit is safe from
airborne diseases unless they open the suit without
decontaminating it first. To determine if a Traveller has
been exposed to a hazard, the same classifications
are used as for chemical attacks – e.g. a blood-borne
disease must be injected; a droplet-based infection is
effectively a gas cloud.
Disease effects are highly variable. Most diseases
cause some kind of fever and flu-like symptoms
within 1–14 days of infection and last a similar period.
Diseases can be rated like lethal toxins in terms of the
ability to resist. How deadly a given disease might be
is a matter for the Referee to decide, although dying of

anthrax or a mutant form of chickenpox is not the stuff
of free-wheeling interstellar adventure. Diseases are
thus better used as a plot device than a way of making
Travellers’ lives miserable.

SAMPLE DISEASES AND
BIOLOGICAL AGENTS
There are plenty of ordinary diseases a Traveller
can catch. The common cold will undoubtedly still
be making people miserable in the far future and
most illnesses are nothing more than a nuisance. A
starship in jump might ring to the sound of sneezing
but it will still get to its destination. Some diseases
are more serious and some can have effects that
might create or complicate an adventure. A truly
devastating disease might influence the course of a
campaign or even define the setting.
The diseases that follow are presented in a standard
format consisting of their name and general nature
followed by the difficulty of the END check required to
resist the illness. This can be modified by the Effect of a
Medic check if proper medical care is available.
Most diseases have one to three stages. At the
beginning of each stage the victim attempts an END
check to resist. If it is made, they begin to recover. If
not, they proceed to the next stage.

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals
75

