T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

ATLANTA HAEMORRHAGIC FEVER

Nature: Blood-borne, natural disease
Difficulty: Formidable (14+)
Stage 1: After an incubation period of 4D+12 hours, the victim begins to display flu-like symptoms. This soon
proceeds to minor ‘bleeds’ both internally and externally.
Stage 2: After 4D hours, the disease proceeds to Stage 2 unless a Formidable (14+) END check is made.
The victim suffers serious internal haemorrhaging resulting in collapse and death. If the check is successful,
the victim will recover over the course of 1D+2 days.
Notes: Haemorrhagic fevers cause a breakdown in the walls of blood vessels and organs. Most are less
than 30% fatal but this very nasty variant is almost always terminal. It can only be passed by contact with
bodily fluids, notably blood. An outbreak of a disease this virulent would normally result in the quarantine
of the entire affected area, creating interesting plot possibilities. A small community such as a backwater
starport could be completely wiped out in between starship visits or, worse, infected individuals might be
taken elsewhere aboard a passing ship.

QUARETE FEVER

Nature: Natural ailment, can be weaponised as a bio-weapon
Difficulty: Average (8+)

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

Stage 1: After an incubation period of 2D+8 days, the victim begins to display symptoms of fever,
headache and possibly chest pain and coughing. Pneumonia is very common as a secondary effect. END
and STR are both reduced by 1D each, to a minimum of 1. The patient is contagious during stage 1 but
ceases to be once symptoms appear.

76

Stage 2: After 2+2D days, the patient begins to recover at the rate of one point each of STR and END
per day. This period is halved to 1D+1 days if medical treatment is available. Most patients recover
without long-term effects.
Notes: Quarete fever is very rarely fatal. It does, however, debilitate the victim and make them a carrier.
Stage 1 sufferers have DM-2 applied against any and all tasks undertaken. Quarete Fever is sometimes
used as a non-lethal biowarfare agent because it can debilitate personnel for long periods and is often
mistaken for naturally occurring pneumonia. If weaponised, Quarete Fever can be dispersed as a vapour,
infecting victims in the same way as any other droplet-borne virus.

R

