WEAPONISED ANTHRAX

Nature: Bioweapon (inhaled spores)
Difficulty: Very Difficult (12+)
Stage 1: After an incubation period of 1D days, the victim begins to display flu-like symptoms. STR and END
are each reduced by 1D to a minimum of 1.
Stage 2: After D3 days, check to see if the disease progresses to Stage 2. If the END check is made, the
victim begins to recover at the rate of one point of STR or END (determine randomly which) every day of
rest and good medical care. Stage 2 is accompanied by severe respiratory distress. STR and END are each
further reduced by 1D each. If either reaches zero, the patient will die.
Stage 3: After D3 days, the patient must pass a Very Difficult (12+) END check. If it is failed, the patient
dies of respiratory failure. If the check is passed, the patient continues to suffer acute respiratory
distress for 2D days before beginning to recover. STR and END recover at a rate of one point each per
day after the end of Stage 3.
Notes: Anthrax is caused by a naturally occurring bacteria. It can cause skin infections but is most
dangerous when inhaled. To be really dangerous, Anthrax or some similar bacterial agent must be
weaponised, i.e. it must be combined with a delivery system enabling it to enter the victims’ respiratory
system. Other spore-carried respiratory infections are similar, with a greater or lesser fatality rate.

NEURODART TOXIN

Nature: Biological poison, ingested or injected
Difficulty: Automatic fail injected, Average (8+) if ingested
Stage 1: Almost instantaneously after the toxin enters the bloodstream (this takes 1D minutes if the toxin
is ingested) the victim suffers neurological disruption beginning with tingling sensations and occasional
vomiting. DEX and INT are reduced by 2D each. If either reaches zero, the victim loses consciousness. If
both reach zero the victim will die.

Notes: Neurodart toxin gets its name from the fact it is often used to coat projectiles from ‘needle’ or ‘dart’
guns which are not designed to cause damage beyond delivering the toxin. Some creatures have the
ability to project similar darts or may secrete a toxin to coat thorns. Neurodart toxins are often derived from
shellfish and the like, and may be ingested in their natural state. If so, it is possible to resist the effects. Direct
injection into the bloodstream cannot be resisted but is not usually fatal – at least, not directly.

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

Stage 2: DEX and INT begin to recover at the rate of one point each per hour after exposure.

77

