T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SPACER ’FLU

Nature: Common ailment, droplet infection (inhaled)
Difficulty: Average (8+)
Stage 1: After an incubation period of 2D days, the victim begins to display mild flu-like symptoms. STR and
END are each reduced by D3 to a minimum of 1.
Stage 2: After 2D days, check to see if the disease progresses to Stage 2. A Stage 2 patient appears to
have recovered from what might be mistaken for a cold. STR and END return to normal and the Traveller
feels well. Note that this means a Traveller who fails the END check will actually seem to recover.
Stage 3: After 2D days, the disease progresses to Stage 3. There is no END check – a Stage 2 patient
progresses to Stage 3 automatically. Stage 3 is accompanied by the return of acute ’flu symptoms
accompanied by fever, vomiting and headache. The disease is rarely fatal in its own right but STR and END
are each reduced by 2D for the duration of Stage 3, which could kill a weak Traveller. After 2D days of total
misery, the disease runs its course and the patient recovers.
Notes: As people move around and despite the best that medical science can do, there is always a ’flu virus
making the rounds. This one is hugely unpleasant but rarely fatal for people in generally good health.

TILT FEVER

Nature: Common ailment, droplet infection (inhaled)
Difficulty: Routine (6+)

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

Stage 1: After an incubation period of 1D days, the victim begins to suffer inner-ear problems resulting in a
loss of balance and general inability to stand upright without clinging to something. The victim suffers DM-2
to all actions other than purely mental ones.

78

Stage 2: After 1D days, check to see of the disease progresses to Stage 2. If so, the Traveller suffers acute
disorientation and hallucinations, reducing DEX, INT, EDU and SOC by 1D each. This stage lasts 1D days
before ending abruptly. There is no third stage.
Notes: Tilt Fever is a droplet-borne infection picked up from other people. It is debilitating and can be highly
dangerous in some occupations as onset is sudden, with no obvious symptoms before Stage 1 manifests
itself. Recovery is complete once the disease progresses through Stage 2. Tilt Fever will prevent a pilot
from operating a vehicle of spacecraft safely, and has been cited as one of the most common reasons for
requiring a replacement at short notice.

R

