ACIDS AND OTHER CORROSIVES
Corrosive substances can come into contact with a
Traveller through being squirted or splashed, or as
a gas cloud. Armour will protect against a corrosive
substance to some extent, although it will be degraded
to uselessness over time.
Weak acids such as those found in the atmospheric
vapour of less lethal hell-worlds cause relatively
little damage providing they are not breathed in. If
a corrosive agent is inhaled, treat the effect as one
level more serious.
Once a Traveller is exposed to an acid (or other
corrosive substance) it will attack each round until it
has neutralised itself by reacting with the Traveller’s
armour or skin. Damage drops by one dice each round
until the acid is consumed. If the acid is attacking
armour, each dice of damage that is resisted destroys
one point of Protection.
This assumes the Traveller is splashed with a small
quantity of the substance or exposed to vapour. If the
victim is immersed or splashed with a large quantity of
the agent, damage is tripled.

If a Traveller is hit again a second time by acid, or
remains within an acid cloud, this new attack begins
at its full value and begins to drop from there. Much as
with Fire attacks, only the most serious corrosion attack
currently ongoing is considered, so remaining within
an acid cloud means the victim is exposed to the full
strength of the agent each round.
Conventional (i.e. non-sealed) armour will protect
against acid splashes at its normal value until dissolved.
Conventional armour is no use against vapour; only a
sealed suit (e.g. a vacc suit) offers protection from skin
contact or breathing corrosive vapour. Armour of this
sort will still be degraded by vapour.
Some hostile-environment suits are treated to resist
acid exposure. Corrosive agents of Typical or lesser
strength will affect them but only over a period of hours.
After 1D hours of exposure, begin checking for suit
failure each hour. Roll 2D: on a 12+ the suit will fail; the
acid then begins to attack the Traveller within. For each
check after the first, the chance increases by +1, i.e.
the chance of failure is 11+ on the second check, 10+
on the third and so on.
Strong and Very Strong acids will attack even acidhardened suits more quickly. Roll for suit failure every
10 minutes of exposure.

Damage

Comments

Mild

1 per round

Mildly caustic substance, e.g. cleaning products, mildly acidic
atmospheric vapour

Weak

D3 per round

Most weak laboratory acids, dilute naturally occurring acids

Typical

1D per round

Most naturally occurring corrosive agents in their normal state

Strong

2D per round

Concentrated laboratory acids, corrosive vapour found in some hellworld atmospheres

Very Strong

3D per round

Very powerful acids

Diseases, Toxins and Chemicals

Type

79

