STARVATION AND THIRST
Being hungry and thirsty is not much of a problem
when the Travellers are a few minutes’ walk from their
favourite starport restaurant. However, the need to
locate proper sources of food and water can be a major
driving factor when out in the wilds. Hunger and thirst
are often limiting or ‘pushing’ factors, in the sense that
a particular action may not be possible due to the need
for more supplies than the Travellers can carry, or an
indication that the Travellers need to get moving before
their supplies run out.
These rules are normally an indication of what-is-tobe-avoided. Occasionally, things may go wrong and
the Travellers might find themselves in a bad situation.
Knowing how long they can survive might suddenly
become very important.

LACK OF PROPER FOOD
A typical human needs about one kilogram of
decent food per day to avoid beginning to starve. It
is possible to survive with no food or minimal food
for a number of days equal to the Traveller’s END
score before any real harm is suffered, providing the
Traveller has sufficient water. During this period of
pre-starvation, the Traveller heals normally and is not
greatly impaired, although they will be in considerable
discomfort and may lack energy.
Assuming the Traveller engages in modest levels
of activity, starvation begins to take effect after the
Traveller’s END score in days. After this, the Traveller
can function for another period equal to twice his END
score in days, during which he does not heal from
injuries and is sufficiently impaired to suffer DM-2 on
any physical actions.
Symptoms of severe starvation appear after this period,
and can lead to death. The highest of the Traveller’s
STR and END is reduced by one each day – determine
randomly if they are equal. When one or the other
reaches zero, the Traveller collapses and cannot take
any further action. Their highest physical attribute (this
is likely to be DEX at this point) is then reduced by one
per day until all three physical attributes reach zero. At
that point the Traveller will die.

80

Recovering from starvation depends on at what
stage the Traveller begins to eat properly again. If
the Traveller gains access to sufficient food (i.e. more
than what would be required to prevent starvation)
at any time before they begin to lose points from
STR and END, each day of eating erases one day of
starvation. A medically tailored diet or consumption of
high-quality foods increases this to two or even three
days. So, a Traveller who has had no food for 11 days
might stuff themselves with high-protein foods upon
their return to civilisation. After two days of this, they
have erased four days from their ‘starvation clock’
but have not rebuilt their body’s reserves. If the food
supply is cut off, they are treated as already having
suffered seven days of starvation.
It is possible to eke out a Traveller’s supplies, for
example by eating just enough food one day and
starving the next but this does not ‘reset the clock’
– the only way to do that is to rebuild the Traveller’s
reserves by eating a good diet for a number of days
equal to the time the Traveller was on the brink of
starvation. Days when the Traveller is able to eat
enough do not rebuild their reserves but do prevent
things from getting any worse.
If a Traveller has suffered a reduction to STR, DEX or
END due to starvation, the effects will be very visible
and reversing them requires a lengthy process. One
point is recovered to each damaged characteristic per
week of good diet. This period can be reduced by the
Effect of a Difficult (10+) Medic check.
A typical person (physical characteristics of 7, 7 and
7) can last 7 days without ill effects, 14 more with
moderate ill effects and then begins to deteriorate.
They will collapse after 13 more days, then linger
in semi-conscious misery for eight more. Time from
beginning to end is 42 days. This may seem like a long
time but real-world incidents produce similar results.

