WATER SHORTAGE

Under fairly normal conditions, a typical human needs
about three litres of water each day. Hot conditions
increase this amount by a factor of two to three. If
adequate water is not available, a Traveller can survive
36 hours without suffering serious ill effects. After this
they must make an Average (8+) END check every
three hours or suffer a reduction of -1 END. For every
check after the first, then a cumulative DM-1 applies.
The difficulty is reduced to Routine (6+) if some (but
not enough) water is available and increased to Difficult
(10+) in hot or dusty conditions, such as a desert.
Once END has reached 0, the Traveller collapses.
He loses D3 points from the higher of STR or DEX
(randomly chosen if they are identical) per hour until
those, too, reach zero and they die.
For example, Ed the Explorer is lost in the wilderness
with starvation rations for five days. He has END
9 so can go for nine days without food without
suffering serious ill effects (he will be pretty miserable
however) and 18 more days with DM-2 to all physical
activities and no natural healing. After 27 days, he
will begin to suffer serious effects. Ed loses one point
to the higher of STR or END each day. This is not
damage in the physical sense; it is the deterioration of
his body’s capabilities as it tries to survive by feeding
on itself. If either STR or DEX get to zero he will
collapse and be unable to take any significant action
as his body uses up its last reserves.

If Ed has brought five days’ worth of rations with him,
he can use them at any point in this process. He
can alternate days where he eats and days where
he does not, eat all his rations then tough it out, or
suffer for several days before eating anything, eat
for five and then begin to starve again. The effect is
the same – minimal rations are not enough to reset
his ‘starvation clock’.
If Ed was rescued after 14 days (i.e. he ate his rations
but was found just before true starvation set in) and
was properly fed for two days before becoming lost
again, he would be able to survive only two days
before starvation sets in once more – his reserves are
not yet rebuilt. What he needs is a couple of weeks
in a nice hotel with a cooked breakfast every day and
unlimited access to the buffet.
If Ed were not rescued at all, he would be able to
operate reasonably well for 21 days and then could
stumble around the wilderness for a few more days
after starvation set in, eating the odd beetle and leaf
but gradually becoming weaker and weaker. Once
STR or END reached 0, he would be unable to move
and become even weaker each day until his body just
gave up from lack of food.

Starvation and Thirst
81

