EFFECTS OF TEMPERATURE
Injury from extremes of temperature tends to be
localised, such as when a Traveller burns a hand or is
splashed with cryogenic fluids. Such injuries are treated
like weapon damage. Armour and/or insulation can help
and it is up to the Referee to decide whether armour
is of any use. A Traveller using heatproof gauntlets
to handle a hot object should be able to count their
Protection against it.
However, if a Traveller is immersed in the source of the
damage (this is what Fire weapons are designed to do),
then it is much harder to protect against harm. Armour
does not work well against such attacks. Most body
armour is reasonably fireproof but counts at only half
Protection against Fire attacks and cryogenic fluids.
Natural resilience and armour from, say, a
creature’s thick hide, counts as full Protection,
as does a sealed full-body suit like a vacc suit.
Naturally, armour specifically intended to protect
against such attacks, such as a fireproof suit or
Reflec, defends at full Protection.

Temperature Damage
Example

Damage

Small flame, e.g. lighter

1 per round

Moderate flame, e.g. wood fire

1D per round

Small intense flame, e.g. blowtorch

2D per round

Steam or burning building

1D per round

Jet of live steam or Furnace

3D

Molten metal or rock

6D

Liquid carbon dioxide

1D per round

Liquid nitrogen

2D per round

Liquid hydrogen

3D per round

This assumes brief contact, such as a gobbet of lava
spitting at a nearby geologist or an unwary engineer
sticking his hand into a jet of live steam from a cracked
pipe. If a Traveller is immersed in the threat, damage
dice are tripled before any reduction for armour
Protection is considered.

82

LONG-TERM EFFECTS
The comfortable range of temperatures for humans
who do not have protective equipment is not great. It
is possible to tolerate quite extreme temperatures (e.g.
inside a meat locker or near a furnace) for a short time
in shirtsleeves without ill effect but temperature can be
insidious and within a fairly short period the Traveller
will begin to suffer harm.
Note that a Traveller wearing an environmentallycontrolled suit is not exposed to outside temperature
and will be immune from all effects so long as the
suit continues to function. Extremes of temperature
will drain power fast and may overload the suit
beyond what it can handle.

HYPOTHERMIA
A Traveller dumped in the arctic in his shirtsleeves has
minutes to live at best and fairly unpleasant ones at
that. However, with suitable clothing, plenty of highcalorie food and care not to get wet, it is possible for a
human to cope with very low temperatures.
A Traveller exposed to cold conditions with inadequate
protection will gradually begin to suffer from
hypothermia and related effects such as frostbite. How
long this takes depends on the temperature. The effects
are much the same – hypothermia is hypothermia
whether it is caused by sitting in shirtsleeves in a
cold room or trudging through arctic wastelands with
inadequate clothing. Cold severe enough to cause
immediate injury is treated as any other form of
damage; these rules cover situations where a Traveller
is being slowly chilled to death.
Hypothermia is held at bay by making successful END
checks. If successful, the Traveller does not suffer
from ill effects until the next time a check is required.
Difficulty of the check depends upon temperature and
the interval between checks is also determined by the
conditions. On a failed check, END is reduced by -1
and this new value is used for subsequent checks.
If END reaches zero the Traveller begins to suffer
from acute hypothermia and loses D3 points from the
highest of STR or DEX until both reach zero.

