T

ERRAIN,
CONDITIONS, AND MOVEMENT

Terrain can be more than an impediment to movement.
It can be hazardous in a variety of ways, albeit most of
which are passive in nature. Terrain can also conceal
dangers and multiple hazards can co-exist. It is
possible to encounter an aquatic arctic region with an
atmospheric hazard, all of which adds up to significant
difficulty for anyone living or working there. Terrain and
local conditions can also affect speed of movement,
even for grav vehicles. A mountain range is not much
of an obstacle for an air/raft flying high above it but a
g-carrier threading a path between the peaks and along
valleys will have to slow down or risk a disaster.
The movement speeds given in this chapter are a
guideline only. As a rule, a person can walk about one
kilometre in 10 minutes, or six kilometres in an hour, in
easy terrain. A speed of about 35 kilometres per day
is possible when marching or hiking in a disciplined
fashion whilst carrying a load such as an infantryman’s
equipment or camping gear. Difficult terrain will greatly
reduce these distances in addition to increasing the
risk of mishap. Some terrain can only be crossed with
technological assistance or extensive preparation,
although in many cases a Traveller might cope for a
short while; it is possible to make a quick dash between
a building and a vehicle in arctic conditions that would
kill someone trying to hike a few kilometres. It may
be possible to swim, scramble or otherwise proceed
through terrain impenetrable over longer distances. Any
such short-range endeavour is a risk of course but this
is what adventures are made of.

VEHICLES IN HAZARDOUS TERRAIN
Any vehicle or conveyance that makes contact with
terrain may be slowed or endangered by it. This applies
also to vehicles passing so close to the ground as to be
affected by ground features. Thus an air/raft threading
its way between bushes and trees is slowed as much
as a wheeled vehicle.
Listed speeds for ground vehicles and watercraft
assume good conditions – flat ground, calm water or
perhaps a road. A vehicle with off-road capability can
travel at its road speed on any reasonably flat, firm
surface. Rougher terrain will slow the vehicle and/or

84

endanger it if it tries to go faster. A vehicle without offroad capability, such as a normal ground car, is limited
to 25% of its normal road speed at the absolute best,
except on the flattest and firmest of terrain. ‘Indoor’
vehicles such as starport baggage trolleys might be
able to manage 10% of road speed at most but will be
stopped or damaged by the slightest obstruction. These
speeds are subject to further reduction by terrain.
For example, a normal ground car has a normal Speed
Band of Medium (100–200 kilometres per hour). It
is limited to 25% of its road speed when driving on
reasonably flat grassy fields, i.e. 25–50 kilometres per
hour. This is still quite a high speed for an unmodified
car to be going cross-country and may not be
advisable. When struggling through tougher terrain
that limits speed to 50%, this reduction is applied to
the already reduced speed, dragging top speed down
to just 12–25 kilometres per hour. It might be quicker
to walk, especially if there is a danger of the vehicle
becoming stuck or suffering a disaster.
Hazardous terrain imposes two effects upon vehicles.
The first is a reduction in speed. A vehicle that is forced
to crash through scrubby bushes or labour through
heavy seas will be slowed no matter how hard the crew
tries to go faster. Hazardous terrain also imposes a
risk of mishap or disaster. At the Referee’s discretion,
some vehicles may not be slowed as much as others, if
at all. A submarine running deep will not be affected by
surface chop; a motorcycle may be able to slip between
bushes that would slow down an ATV.

TERRAIN ADAPTATION

Vehicles well adapted to the terrain will not be affected
as badly by hazards, although they can still encounter
conditions that slow or endanger them. A vehicle that
has good adaptations suited to the terrain – such as
an ATV with an additional aquatic drive negotiating a
swamp – halves the normal movement penalty and, in
the event of mishap, allows the driver a chance to avoid
it using his appropriate vehicle skill.

