The normal difficulty to avoid a mishap is an Average
(8+) check for a vehicle with a suitable adaptation.
The difficulty might be increased for a particularly
hazardous area, or reduced for a vehicle with very
good terrain-handling characteristics such as two or
more applicable adaptations.

VEHICULAR MISHAPS

If circumstances indicate a mishap has occurred, the
Vehicle Mishaps table can be used to determine its
nature. The Referee is encouraged to flesh out possible
hazards for specific environments, using the table as
a starting point. Roll 2D and add the vehicle’s Speed
Band, then subtract the driver’s skill level.

Vehicle Mishaps
2D

Hazard

4 or less

Scary near-miss, passengers and crew
are shaken but no serious harm is done.

5–6

Control loss leads to the vehicle suffering
cosmetic damage and becoming stuck.
Extricating it will take 2D person-hours
(i.e. the result of a 2D roll divided by the
number of people working).

7–8

Minor component failure – broken lights
or windows, damaged tyre, or failed
engine component. The problem can be
fixed or jury-rigged with the vehicle’s own
tools and spares. Make an Average (8+)
Mechanic check each hour to complete a
workable repair.

9–10

13 or
more

Serious control loss results in a collision
and 1D damage to everyone aboard. The
vehicle is stuck as per 5–6 and suffers a
component failure as per 7–8.
The vehicle crashes and is immobilised,
at least temporarily. It may or may
not be repairable locally. Everyone
aboard suffers 2D damage and several
components are put out of action.

Grav vehicles and aircraft flying above terrain hazards
can ignore them and are subject only to wind and
weather effects. Flying at an altitude where terrain can
pose a hazard, such as between buildings or along
a valley, does not reduce speed but requires care.
Navigating lightly cluttered airspace (a few mountain
peaks or very tall buildings) requires a Routine (6+)
Flyer check every 4D minutes. Cluttered airspace
such as a heavily forested valley with crags requires
an Average (8+) Flyer check every 2D minutes.
These checks are subject to a negative DM equal
to the vehicle’s Speed Band (see the Traveller Core
Rulebook, page 130).
A vehicle with collision-avoidance equipment (an
Enhanced or Advanced Autopilot will have this) can
be relied upon to get the Travellers safely through
the hazardous area at one Speed Band less than
its cruising speed. If the Travellers wish to inflict a
hair-raising and violent passage on themselves the
automatics will keep them alive at cruising speed but
the experience will not be pleasant and anyone who is
not properly strapped into a seat risks being bashed off
the interior fittings every couple of minutes.

Airborne Hazards
2D

Hazard

6 or less

Urgent evasive manoeuvre required.
Unpleasant for everyone aboard but no
serious hazard.

7–11

Minor collision with flying creature, tree
branch or similar object. A Routine (6+)
skill check is required to maintain control.

12–14

Collision with a branch, rock, creature
or antenna. 1D damage is applied to the
vehicle and an Average (8+) skill check
required to maintain control.

15 or more Collision results in heavy damage
to vehicle requiring an immediate
emergency landing. In addition, a
Difficult (10+) skill check is required to
maintain control.

Terrain, Conditions and movement

11–12

Navigational difficulties put the vehicle in
a place where there is no way forward.
Backtracking around the obstruction will
take 1D hours.

FLYING IN CLUTTERED AIRSPACE

85

