T

At higher speeds, skill checks are required as
previously described. Failure indicates a hazard has
been encountered, although immediate corrective
action may be taken in some cases. Roll 2D on the
Airborne Hazards table and add the vehicle’s Speed
Band, then subtract the driver’s skill level. DM-2 applies
in lightly cluttered airspace.
If control is lost, the vehicle will go out of control and
crash. A skilled pilot might mitigate the crash but it
cannot be avoided at this point. Rather than wiping out
all the Travellers on a random failed skill check, the
Referee can impose what might be termed a ‘setback
crash’ which grounds the vehicle until repairs can be
made and imposes difficulties on the Travellers. These
can be quite serious; having to yomp 200 kilometres
back to the starport with little food might be an
adventure in its own right. Then there is the problem of
recovering the vehicle and repairing it, or the cost of a
new one... at least nobody is dead. That is good, right?

Terrain, Conditions and movement

USING HAZARDOUS TERRAIN

86

Hazardous terrain can be used by the Referee to
add an extra dimension to an adventure. This might
be little more than scenery; one climate-controlled
building is much like another but the fact that this
adventure is taking place on the seabed or high up
in cloudy mountains adds interest. In many cases,
hazardous terrain can be used to either make an
adventure more dangerous or contain the Travellers in
a specific area. If it is not possible to survive outside
the world’s only settlement, it is less likely that the
Travellers will decide to ignore the adventure in front
of them and go wandering off.
Hazardous terrain can also be used as a ‘clock’ in an
adventure. An underwater base that is slowly filling up or
an arctic settlement that will be flattened by a storm in a
few hours, will impose a time frame on Travellers. This
can be used for obvious dramatic effect but can also
impose limitations on the activities. Some Travellers will
insist on stripping every saleable thing out of a site they
visit; destroying the place after a few hours prevents this
sort of munchkinistic looting being taken to extremes.

OPEN COUNTRY
Open country is the easiest natural terrain to move
through. Typically, assuming some sort of atmosphere
and availability of water, it will be characterised by light
vegetation with clumps of bushes or trees. Vehicles
without off-road capability are slowed and weather can

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

severely limit mobility in various ways. There is little
cover in open country and heavy rain or high winds
can cause serious problems. However, open terrain
is rarely entirely flat. This can be beneficial under
some circumstances and an impediment in others. For
example, an area of apparently open grassland might
have low-lying areas that are boggy or contain rain-cut
crevices that can snare a vehicle.
Open grassland is the easiest natural terrain to
move through. Grassland is excellent for cultivation,
so may be replaced in colonised areas by farmed
terrain which may or may not have useable roads.
Grassland will typically contain rolling hills and various
watercourses, along with the occasional lake. The
immediate area around these features may differ from
the rest of the grassland.
Upland areas of grassland are typically termed
moors and generally characterised by hardy, lowlying vegetation which can conceal hazards and is
surprisingly difficult to push through. Some regions of
open country may be further categorised as steppe,
semi-desert, montane grassland (high altitude
grasslands found in mountainous regions) or tundra.
Characteristics are similar, although specifics of
vegetation and animal life vary.
Walkers and vehicles can typically make their
normal off-road speed in grassland unless there are
additional hazards and are slowed by 50% in rougher
terrain such as moorland.

SHRUBLAND
Shrubland is characterised by bushes and small
trees, often with grassy areas between. Shrubland
differs from open country which has a few bushes
here and there and is extremely dense and difficult
to navigate through. Very thick shrubland may be
all but impenetrable for hundreds of kilometres but
there are usually gaps that can be navigated at half
normal speed. Shrubland offers good concealment to
predators and prey alike, although larger creatures
will tend to be channelled into the passable
areas. This may make encounters more likely and
potentially more hazardous as well.
Shrubland can exist in wet, dry or cold conditions, and
may be combined with rocky terrain as well. If a route
can be found, progress is typically at half normal speed
but those who have to hack their way through dense
areas or crawl through in an ATV, crushing bushes as
they go, will be lucky to make 5–10% of normal speed.

R

