WETLAND

Wetland typically occurs in small patches near
watercourses and lakes but extensive wetlands can
be found in low-lying areas. Marshes, swamps and
watery forests are all wetlands, as well as grassland
or shrubland with considerable amounts of freestanding or flowing water. Wetlands can be totally
impassable to ground vehicles, or navigable with
great difficulty. Movement off the roads or dry areas is
difficult at best and often treacherous. It is hard to tell
if the ‘solid’ ground up ahead is in fact nothing more
than reeds growing in loose mud, and even an ATV
can become stuck in such conditions.
Movement on a good road in wetlands is much the
same as on any other road but navigating tracks and
known paths is slower. It is possible to make 75% of
normal speed on tracks or in a boat. Navigating a wild
wetland is much slower, with Travellers making 25% of
their normal speed at best.

FOREST AND JUNGLE
A forest is characterised by large vegetation such as
trees, giant ferns or fungi, and the like. It is generally
not possible to take a large vehicle (anything larger
than a motorcycle) through a forest except on a

cleared or naturally occurring trail. Very dense forest
may be impenetrable without hacking a path – which
may be overgrown and essentially gone in just a few
days. Forests can occur on flat land or hills, which
may create further difficulties.
Forest can include temperate deciduous or evergreen
types, sub-arctic taiga, rainforest or jungle. Wildlife will
vary according to conditions; as a general rule, the
warmer the climate is, the more of a nuisance insects
and other small creatures can be. Some forests teem
with biting or poisonous insects or dangerous parasites,
making them dangerous to pass through.
A light forest can be navigated at half speed on foot or
using agile transportation such as motorcycles, horses
and the like. Dense forest can be navigated at 25%
speed on foot; it is not possible to get far with vehicles
or animals in such terrain. ‘Impenetrable’ forest is not
completely impenetrable as such but requires a path
to be cleared or a Traveller to traverse slowly and
carefully with many delays to go around obstacles or
climb over them. Impenetrable forest can be navigated
at 5–10% of normal movement speed, although some
areas will be truly impassable.

Terrain, Conditions and movement
87

