T

ARCTIC TERRAIN
Arctic terrain is characterised by extreme cold but does
not necessarily mean there are ice sheets or snow
banks. A very dry area may not have ice yet pose
the hazards of arctic terrain. Arctic terrain tends to be
exposed to strong winds which can make movement
hazardous or even impossible. Dry, cold terrain of this
sort does not slow movement for vehicles or Travellers
on foot unless there are strong winds.
Movement on an ice shelf can be almost unimpeded
if the ice is very flat. However, it can be very difficult
to spot dips, undulations or bumps amid a landscape
with little contrast. Most such undulations are minor
but can lead to control loss if hit at an awkward
angle whilst driving fast. Traction on ice can also be
a serious problem. If the pressure from a vehicle or
foot is sufficient to cause the surface to melt, this can
create extremely slippery conditions. Low ground
pressure or extremely cold conditions can reduce
this effect. However, the commonest technological
solution is to use studs, spikes or chains to bite into
the ice and improve grip.

Terrain, Conditions and movement

A vehicle or Traveller without grip aids risks losing
control on the simplest manoeuvres. A Difficult (10+)
Drive check (Survival if on foot) is necessary to avoid
falling or going out of control at any time a manoeuvre
is attempted at more than 10% of normal speed. With
suitable grip aids it is possible to move on sheet ice at
normal speeds, although any manoeuvre made at more
than 50% of this speed requires an Average (8+) Drive
check to avoid a mishap.

88

Broken ice is much harder to move safely on. Broken
ice conditions exist where ice has melted and
refrozen or chunks of ice have been moved about.
Rocks and other protrusions are can also create
broken ice conditions. A vehicle that stays under
25% of its normal road speed can travel more or
less safely providing it is using traction aids. Beyond
this, the chances of an incident increase rapidly. An
Average (8+) Drive check is required every hour, with
a negative DM equal to the vehicle’s Speed Band.
Failure indicates a mishap has occurred.
Sub-arctic terrain typically occurs close to permanent
ice sheets but can also be found at high altitudes
in more temperate regions. Often tundra is covered
in snow or ice for much of the year, with vegetation
appearing in an explosion of growth when the

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

temperature rises. Sub-arctic terrain can also include
taiga; dense forests of evergreen trees or similar
vegetation. The region between taiga and tundra
is characterised by Krummholz; inhospitable areas
where trees can only grow in sheltered spots and tend
to be twisted and deformed by constant wind action.
Taiga is similar to temperate forest in many ways,
other than being very cold and prone to heavy
snow cover. Taiga can typically be navigated at half
speed on foot or using agile transportation such as
motorcycles, horses and the like. Dense taiga can be
navigated at 25% speed on foot; it is not possible to
get far with vehicles or riding animals in such terrain.
Some areas, especially those populated with tough,
springy bushes rather than trees, can be all but
impossible to move through.
Tundra is generally more accessible and may be flat
enough to be considered open plains. However, the
ground is often littered with stones left behind by ice
cover; some of them very large. Tundra can sometimes
be prone to becoming boggy or may be cut with
meltwater channels which can be deep. Tundra can be
crossed at up to 50% of normal speed without undue
hazard. Trying to go faster requires a Routine (6+)
Drive check every 1D hours to avoid a mishap, with a
negative DM equal to the vehicle’s Speed Band.

MOUNTAINOUS OR ROCKY TERRAIN
Mountainous terrain forces Travellers to think in three
dimensions. A destination may not be far away but if it
is on the shoulder of a different mountain then getting
there might be a challenge. Some mountainous terrain
is essentially impassable to ground vehicles; Travellers
on foot might have to laboriously climb steep slopes or
cliffs. Even non-mountainous rocky terrain like Badlands
can be very difficult for vehicles, with sudden drops or
gulleys requiring a long backtrack to get around.
Ground vehicles operating in mountainous terrain
will be able to manage at most 25% of normal speed
unless a good road has been driven through the
mountains. This is an average, of course; there may be
areas where the terrain is flat enough for short bursts
of higher speed but there will also be those that have to
be crawled through. Rocky Badlands can be traversed
at up to 50% of normal speed without undue hazard.
Beyond this, a Routine (6+) Drive check is needed
every 1D hours to avoid a mishap. The vehicle’s Speed
Band serves as a negative DM on this roll.

R

