DESERT

A desert is defined by extremely low rainfall and not
by any temperature conditions. Some deserts are very
hot, others are dry arctic regions. A rainshadow desert
can be caused by a mountain range, which causes
moisture-laden air to rise and dump its contents on one
side of the mountains with little reaching the other.
An arid plain or semi-desert can be traversed at normal
speed, although there may be deep gulleys where
intermittent flooding has cut steep-sided channels.
These are sometimes concealed or resemble folds in
the ground which turn out to be much more hazardous
than they first appear.
Sandy or dusty deserts are much slower going. Firm
sand or dust-covered rock can be traversed at full
speed by hovercraft or low ground pressure vehicles
such as tracklayers and multi-wheel ATVs but will slow
more conventional vehicles to 75% of normal speed.
Soft sand or dunes will slow low ground pressure
vehicles to 50% of normal speed. Normal vehicles such
as a typical off-road car will become stuck within a few
kilometres and only be able to progress by a laborious
round of digging out and struggling along for a while
until the next difficult stretch. This process slows the
vehicle to 10% of normal speed.

AQUATIC TERRAIN

Aquatic terrain includes deep water, the surface of
seas and lakes, and shorelines or shallows. It poses
some very obvious problems to Travellers – namely
breathing underwater and moving around in an aquatic
environment – but there are many other factors to
consider. Chief among these is pressure, which
increases very quickly with depth (see page 68).

A vehicle that is not adapted to operate in water
will, obviously, sink sooner or later. Very well sealed
vehicles might bob about for some time but will not
function properly and ultimately fill up with water. A
properly adapted vehicle may float but it will need some
means of propulsion or it will be at the mercy of wind
and current. Adaptations usually include ballasting to
reduce the chance of rolling over but even so, most
semi-aquatic vehicles are capable of operating only in
calm water. A vehicle with a drive system designed to
be used in water, such as a water-jet system, will be
able to travel at the speed dictated by its drive system.
Those that use a basic system such as wheel rotation
or a tiny auxiliary propeller are typically limited to 5%
of their road speed. Unless a vehicle has a boat-form
hull or similar design, it will be very clumsy in water and
subject to a great deal of drag. This will limit its ability
to go against a current that a boat with a similar drive
system could power through.
Marshy or boggy terrain slows ground vehicles to 25%
of their road speed; less if there is thick undergrowth.
Water that is shallow enough to drive through slows
vehicles to 50% of their road speed if the bottom is firm
and 10–20% if the bottom is uneven or soft. Both kinds
of terrain can conceal hazards such as deeper areas,
soft mud or concealed obstructions.

VACUUM

A world with a Trace atmosphere, or none at all, will
have little or no erosion in the usual sense. Rock
formations tend to be jagged and some areas will be
impenetrable to vehicles. In addition to the difficulties
associated with operating in vacuum – such as
needing to maintain suit integrity and a reliable
source of air to breathe – this terrain can impose a
number of additional hazards.

Terrain, Conditions and movement

Very soft sand or dust can be completely impassable
even for track-laying vehicles. Low ground pressure
vehicles can labour along at 20% of normal speed
most of the time but a Difficult (10+) Drive check is
required every 2D hours to avoid becoming stuck.
Extricating a vehicle which has become stuck in soft
sand is virtually impossible, making such areas an
effective barrier to ground transportation.

The surface layer of a sea or large lake can be very
active and waves can affect underwater craft. This is
hazardous in shallow water, dragging a submarine
around and possibly causing collisions. At depths of
more than 30 metres, the effects of most surface waves
are negligible. However, deep water can have violent
currents and eddies around seabed terrain and other
hazardous phenomena can be encountered. Seabed
‘rivers’ are sometimes cut by fast-moving currents and
‘waterfalls’ can occur when a current crosses the edge
of a steep depression in the seabed. These currents
can endanger underwater craft or structures.

89

