T

Areas of bedrock may be fairly smooth, especially
if they originated as lava flows, but typically there
will be crevices and uneven areas which make
movement at speed hazardous. Bedrock or the
bottom of a meteorite crater can be navigated at 75%
of off-road speed without undue hazard.
Regolith is uncompacted material such as dust and
small rocks covering bedrock in a layer that may be
very deep. It is not unduly hazardous to move on in
and of itself but can conceal hazards such as dust
pools or crevasses. Regolith slows movement to
50% of off-road speed.
Rocky terrain includes crater walls and generally
uneven areas. Parts of a rocky region may be entirely
impenetrable to vehicles and could pose a severe
threat of falls or suit damage to personnel on foot. Best
speed through even the most navigable parts of a rocky
region is 25% of off-road speed.

ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS

Terrain, Conditions and movement

Atmospheric conditions cause a variety of problems for
Travellers. Very thin or dense atmospheres can cause
breathing difficulties, requiring a respirator or similar
equipment. However, there are more subtle hazards
that can result from local atmospheric conditions;
hazards that might not be recognised in time.

90

Thin atmospheres tend not to carry dust particles
and moisture as readily as thicker air. Erosion will
be less evident and clouds are likely to be thin and
wispy. This can improve visibility but also reduces the
temperature regulating effects of a thick cloud base.
Night-time temperatures will drop quickly, although
the air will usually be dryer so frost and ice are less
likely to form. Rain will fall closer to the water sources
it evaporated from, resulting in dry areas, and dust will
also fall out of the air more quickly. Travellers trying to
predict the movement of an ash cloud from a volcano,
for example, may find their calculations quite wrong.
Strong winds are unlikely to be common and flying
creatures will have to be very light if they exist at all,
assuming local gravity conditions are similar to those
of Earth. Similarly, vegetation may grow taller and be
generally more spindly than Travellers might expect
since wind effects are minimal.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A thin atmosphere makes winged aircraft problematic
but can make operating grav craft safer than elsewhere
since they are unlikely to be blown around or
encounter visibility-reducing conditions. Conversely,
a dense atmosphere will have many opposite effects,
increasing erosion and regulating temperatures a
little more evenly. Wind effects can be quite extreme,
with pressure changes sometimes sufficient to cause
damage. Dense-atmosphere worlds with a fair amount
of surface water can be very wet, with thick clouds
carrying large quantities of water far inland and
dumping it in spectacular storms.
Hurricanes and similar phenomena are also likely to
be more intense on a dense-atmosphere world than
on Earth and what constitutes a windy day on a dense
atmosphere world might by quite different to what the
Travellers are expecting. Wind is not normally that
much of a hazard to a vehicle or starship but trying to
drive an ATV on ice in extreme wind conditions, or land
on a narrow starport pad in very gusty conditions, might
be a real challenge. Some dense atmosphere worlds
are sufficiently violent that small objects are routinely
flung around by the wind. It may be that outside a few
sheltered locations, an otherwise habitable world might
be simply too windy to be useful.
Modest winds pose no unusual problems for flying
vehicles or spacecraft but high winds and storm
conditions can make take-off and landing difficult and
can even bring down grav vehicles.
High Winds impose DM-2 on Pilot or Flyer checks
Storm Winds impose DM-4 on Pilot or Flyer checks
Hurricane Winds impose DM-6 on Pilot or Flyer
checks and make winged flight all but impossible
Hurricane Plus conditions are rare but can occur on
some worlds. All Pilot and Flyer checks are subject
to DM-8 and most vehicles cannot take off at all.
Starships have the mass to give them some stability
but operations are highly dangerous all the same
Very Thin atmospheres alter these DMs by +3
Thin atmospheres alter these DMs by +2
Dense atmospheres alter these DMs by -2
Super-Dense atmospheres alter these DMs by -4
Thus a hurricane in a Thin atmosphere world imposes
DM-4 on Pilot checks; a storm on a Dense atmosphere
world imposes DM-6.

R

