More extreme atmospheric conditions can result
from oddly shaped worlds or unusual surface
features, or from very high or very low atmospheric
pressure. A world with very pronounced equatorial
bulges might have significant pressure differences
between the equator and the poles, making one or
the other hazardous. Alternatively, a world with a
very thin atmosphere might have deep valleys where
the air is breathable and one with an excessively
dense atmosphere could have plateaux or mesas
where again the air is at a breathable pressure.
Whilst a technological society could build cities
anywhere, travel between these safe zones might be
hazardous and a regressed colony might be broken
into isolated sub-groups by the invisible barriers
between habitable regions.

LANDING IN DIFFICULT TERRAIN
Starships and grav vehicles do not usually need to
make a rolling, aerodynamic landing, although it is
still common to approach a landing area on a gradual
descent in the manner of a winged flying vehicle as this
reduces clutter in the airspace directly above the port.
A relatively light grav vehicle such as an air/raft can
land almost anywhere; even on water if it is capable of
floating. Starships have rather more ground pressure
and normally require a prepared landing area.

Starship Landing
Distance From Target

0 or less

No suitable landing site is found
within 100km x the planet’s Size code

1–3

A suitable landing site is located
within 2D x 10 x the planet’s Size
code from the target

4–7

A suitable landing site is located
within 2D x the planet’s Size code
from the target

8–11

A suitable landing site is located
within 2D km from the target

12–14

A suitable landing site is located
2Dx100m from the target

15 or more

A suitable landing site is located
within a few metres of the target

Wilderness landings are more hazardous. It is not
possible to be entirely certain the terrain is as firm
or even as it looks. A good sensors operator can
take a lot of the guesswork out of finding a suitable
landing site but nothing is certain. If the Travellers fly
around looking for somewhere suitable to land their
ship, they must make a Difficult (10+) Electronics
(sensors) check (2D x 10 minutes, INT) and apply
the Effect as a DM on the Starship Landing table.
DM-2 applies per attempt after the first.
This assumes active sensors such as radar are in use,
which will advertise the Travellers’ presence to anyone
scanning for electromagnetic emissions. If a site is
to be ‘eyeballed’ instead using only passive sensors,
the Recon or Pilot skill can be used but the check is
Very Difficult (12+) and the landing is subject to all the
potential hazards of a wilderness landing.
If the Travellers successfully locate a suitable landing
area or one is marked for them, the landing is no more
difficult or hazardous than usual. Gusts and eddies might
make things tricky for the pilot but the ground will support
their ship once it gets down. If, on the other hand the
Travellers choose to put their ship down right here, they
are exposed to all the risks of a wilderness landing.
Assuming the pilot makes some attempt to land in a
fairly clear area, a Difficult (10+) Pilot check (DEX) is
required to get the ship on the ground safely. If the
Travellers decide to land in a particularly hazardous
area this check is Formidable (14+). For example, the
Travellers decide to set down in very rugged terrain
or settle into the treetops and allow their ship’s weight
to crunch through the branches until they reach the
ground. The Effect of this check is applied to a 2D roll
on the Wilderness Landing table.
A ship can become stuck against solid objects like
rocks or buildings, or may sink into ground that is softer
than it looked. This may require digging, shoring up of
loose ground, or other heavy work to free the vessel.

Terrain, Conditions and movement

2D+Effect

Travellers approaching a designated landing area,
even if it is just a stretch of marked bedrock, can
normally be confident it will support the weight of their
ship. Disasters do happen, of course; a landing area
might have been undermined by subsidence or even
deliberately sabotaged to damage the next vessel that
arrives. However, in most cases a prepared landing
area will be able to support any craft that can fit on it.

91

