ANIMAL ENCOUNTERS
Travellers may encounter all manner of animal life
during the course of their adventures. It is relatively
easy to figure out where a given creature fits into the
local ecosystem and how dangerous it is likely to be
but, occasionally, Travellers might encounter something
very odd or which does not fit the usual description
of an animal. There is always a reason for any given
feature an animal possesses but nature sometimes
moves in very mysterious ways.
Resilient Animals
The physical nature of some creatures means
that some weapons do not adversely affect them
very well, or at all. Some creatures are resistant to
particular types of injuries, which modifies any armour
Protection they have.
Reduced Damage indicates a weapon’s damage
dice should be reduced to D3, retaining any plus
or minus. Thus, a handgun normally doing 3D-3
damage would do 3D3-3.
Minimum Damage indicates a weapon delivers only
one point of damage per dice, ignoring any plus or
minus. Thus, a handgun normally delivering 3D-3
damage and a powerful rifle normally doing 3D+2 would
both deliver only three points of damage as their bullets
pass through the creature with equally poor effect.

ANIMAL TRAITS

The following Traits can apply to any creature, although
some are obviously unsuitable for certain environments.
Clever: Clever animals can learn to operate simple
devices. They will know what effect they are trying to
achieve but have no understanding of the principles
behind it. For example, a Clever creature might observe
Travellers operating the cargo hoist in their ship and
learn that it can ride the containers into the ship, or lift
one up to obtain a higher vantage point. Cleverness
combined with aggression creates a very dangerous
predator capable of stalking Travellers through doors
they think are secured; less violent creatures can still
cause havoc by playing with the controls of a vehicle. A
Clever animal can figure out how to use a simple device
or control such as a door panel on a 2D roll of 10+,
made each time it sees someone perform the task.

Composite (x+y): Composite creatures are
actually made up of multiple parts than can operate
independently. For example, a creature may appear
to be a single organism until disturbed, at which point
several parts detach themselves and attack intruders.
Composite creatures are rare and often confuse
observers into thinking they are entirely separate
organisms. Hits for a Composite creature refer to
its main body, if it has one. Detached parts have a
quarter of this amount but harming them does no
damage to the main body. The number of component
parts is denoted in the format x+y, where x is the
number of critical, or main, components and y is the
number of detachable parts.
Dispersed: Dispersed creatures do not have the
usual concentration of functions into large organs but
instead disperse life processes throughout their bodies.
Dispersed creatures take Reduced Damage from most
weapons but full damage from blades and fire – they
can be cut apart or burned but poking them full of holes
or bashing their squashy appendages has little effect.
Energy: Creatures composed of pure energy are
postulated to exist, although their life processes are so
exotic as to defy explanation. Energy creatures are not
affected by conventional weapons.
Explosive (x,y): Explosive animals contain substances
that burn hotly or even explode when exposed to the
atmosphere. Such organisms tend to be extremely
exotic and rare, since exploding on contact with air
would normally be an evolutionary liability. An Explosive
creature’s capabilities are denoted in the format:
(damage, radius) so one listed as Explosive (1D, 3m)
causes 1D damage to everything in a three metre
radius if it is exposed to atmosphere.
Floater: Floaters are very low-density creatures which
drift on air currents without actually being able to fly. By
definition they have little structure and are not resilient,
and thus usually also possess the Gossamer trait.
Floaters can move under their own power but only at a
rate of one metre per combat round.

93

