T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Strange Animal
Gossamer: A Gossamer creature has virtually
no structure and few solid parts for a weapon
to damage. Gossamer creatures take Minimum
Damage from most weapons – stabbing, crushing,
impaling, projectile and even laser weapons do
Minimum Damage.
Gigantic: Gigantic creatures normally exist in liquid
environments, although there are exceptions from
time-to-time. The smallest creature considered to be
Gigantic might weigh 100,000 kilograms – equivalent
to a Blue Whale. A creature with the Gigantic trait
is treated as a Spacecraft scale object (see page
157 of the Traveller Core Rulebook) for purposes of
dealing and sustaining damage.
Ornery: Ornery creatures are unnecessarily
aggressive and might attack in response to trigger
behaviour that cannot be predicted. They will seem
to kill for no reason, slaughtering livestock and
eating only a small proportion of the kills. Ornery
creatures will attack Travellers (or even vehicles)
on a roll of 8+ on 2D, increasing to 10+ on 2D if the
creatures are heavily outnumbered.

Animal Encounters

Particulate: A Particulate animal is made up of small
and more or less independent components; a swarm
of bees or ants could be considered to be a single
particulate creature. Some highly exotic organisms
are made of particles, making them very difficult
to kill. Fire-based attacks have full effect; all other
weapons do Minimum Damage.

94

Strange: Strange creatures are disturbing to humans
and most other sentients who see or hear them. They
may make sounds or project a low-level telepathic
field that causes unease, or simply look ‘wrong’ in a
way that inspires fear and even madness. Strange
creatures range from normal animals that move in a
particularly sinister way to something straight out of
a horror movie. Any Traveller encountering a Strange
creature must make a Difficult (10+) END check. If it is
failed, roll 2D on the Strange Animal table and apply
the Effect of the failed check.

2D + Effect

Result

0 or less

The Traveller panics or faints and is out
of action for 3D rounds.

1–3

The Traveller recoils in horror and must
flee for 1D rounds.

4–6

The Traveller is shocked and confused
by the creature’s appearance and
freezes for 1D rounds.

7–9

The Traveller is shocked or confused,
and is unable to act for 1 round.

10+

The Traveller is momentarily shocked,
and suffers DM-4 on Initiative checks.

Tough: Tough animals are unusually resilient. They
take Reduced Damage and when disabled or killed
there is a chance that the creature will rally and
continue the fight. 1D rounds after the creature goes
down, the Referee should roll 2D. On 8+ the creature
regains a quarter of its normal Hits and continues to
act as normal. It is unusual for a creature to be able to
do this more than once but at the Referee’s discretion
a Tough creature can keep rallying until it fails, at
which point it will expire.
Toxic (range, damage): Toxic animals have some
noxious substance within their tissues or on their
skin. This is not the same thing as a venomous
creature introducing a toxin with a bite; it is a more
unusual situation in which the creature may spit or
bleed acid or some other dangerous substance, or
undergoes a change when it dies which causes its
carcass to become hazardous.
Vacuum: Very few creatures can exist in a complete
vacuum and those that do tend to be very strange. A
greater variety of organisms live in partial vacuum or
extremely low pressure environments and some of
those can survive a complete vacuum for a time. This
trait indicates the ability to function in hard vacuum
even if the creature cannot live there indefinitely.
The following creatures can be found on worlds with
a breathable atmosphere and conditions that humans
would at least find tolerable with assistance.

R

