EXOTIC ENVIRONMENT ANIMALS
The following creatures exist in an environment that
would kill unassisted humans. Their home conditions
may include low atmospheric pressure or a hazardous
gas mix, or other dangerous characteristics.

Hequib Ukide
The hequib ukide is known by various names on
different worlds but most database entries use the
earliest known reference. This is an anglicised variant
of a phrase in the language of an obscure minor race,
which rather prosaically translates as ‘The Large
Crustacean That Threatens Our People’. The origins
of the hequib ukide are unknown but small populations
can be encountered on many worlds.
A full-grown hequib ukide resembles an eight-legged
lobster with an elongated body, with a pair of powerful
pincers and a secondary set of smaller arms below
its mouth. The hequib ukide can thrive in very thin or
trace atmosphere worlds and can even function in
hard vacuum for a time. Once its resources run down
it will become dormant, prolonging survival by several
months. It is thought these creatures have travelled
between star systems in this manner.

Hequib ukide are normally solitary, meeting to mate
once every few years then rapidly separating. Their
young are carried in a sac within the torso until they are
able to feed themselves, then dropped as the hequib
ukide trundles slowly on its way. Feeding is a constant
activity, with the secondary arms shovelling loose
matter into the creature’s maw as it moves. Most of this
matter is inert on many worlds but a hequib ukide can
extract nutrition from any organic material it encounters.
If turned loose on a world with a higher oxygen
concentration and plentiful organic matter, the hequib
ukide enters a feeding frenzy. It will eventually eat itself
to death but in the meantime can be highly destructive.
These creatures are also attracted to rich sources of
organic matter in their home environment, such as
trash dropped by Travellers or a badly sealed waste
dump port on a starship. The hequib ukide will fight
to get at such a rich source of food, where normally it
would simply trundle on its way.
Animal

Hits

Speed

Hequib Ukide

16

3m

Skills

Melee 0, Recon 0, Survival 1

Attacks

Pincers (2D)

Traits

Armour (+2), Vacuum

Behaviour

Omnivore, Filter

Animal Encounters
107

