VEHICLE DAMAGE
The vehicle rules presented in the Traveller Core
Rulebook and Vehicle Handbook work very well but
there are some cases where loopholes can arise.
Small, light vehicles can be destroyed or disabled
with weapons that should not really be able to do
them much damage, including the fists of an angry
Traveller. In most cases where it is possible to destroy
a vehicle with light weapons, this would take a great
deal of time – blasting a sailing ship apart with a
shotgun might be possible but it is unlikely anyone
would expend the time or ammunition.

Anti-personnel weapons do no damage to vehicles
unless an Effect of 6 or more is scored on their attack
roll, in which case damage is reduced by 2D to a
minimum of 1 point.

Then again, these are Travellers we are talking
about. The following rules are designed to prevent
exploitation of this loophole. Either or both can be
used at the Referee’s discretion.

For example, an extremely angry Traveller tries to kick
his TL6 dune buggy to pieces. His unarmed combat
damage is 1D, +1 for his STR bonus. He boots the
vehicle as hard as he can, rolling a total of 7 for
damage. This would be enough to destroy the dune
buggy despite its armour Protection of 2 but for the 6
points of additional Protection it is assumed to have
due to its Tech Level. Our angry Traveller can inflict
quite a lot of cosmetic damage with his boot but he
cannot destroy the vehicle that way.

ANTI-PERSONNEL WEAPONS

Weapons delivering less than 4D damage are defined
as anti-personnel weapons, as are all personal
weapons firing a multiple projectile (such as shotguns)
and those with the Stun trait. Any modifier to damage is
ignored for the purposes of this definition, so a weapon
doing 3D+8 damage would still be an anti-personnel
weapon whereas one doing 4D-4 would be outside the
anti-personnel category.

BUILT TOUGH
Vehicles and structures are built from strong and resilient
materials. Against man portable weapons that are not
Destructive, a vehicle is considered to have an extra
amount of armour equal to the TL of its construction.

111

