REFEREEING TRAVELLER
Refereeing a roleplaying game is part art, part science
and always a matter of personal style. There are many
possible ways to set up and run a game, ranging
from entirely freeform to something that resembles
a computer program with every possible detail and
eventuality provided for in the Referee’s notes. There
really is no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ way to go about it so long
as everyone is enjoying the game.
It is easy to fall into the trap of becoming adversarial
towards the Travellers, especially if they insist on
wandering off the planned adventure path or take
unforeseen actions that derail the plot. However, the
Referee’s role is not to oppose the Travellers but to
administer the game in terms of interpreting rules
and determining the actions of other characters. The
Referee is there to facilitate interactions between
the Travellers and a universe that can sometimes be
friendly and often be hostile.
Occasionally a rule-as-written will result in a situation
that seems less than plausible; the Referee should
make a call and keep the game moving along. Hours
spent in pointless rules-lawyering are hours of your
life wasted. It is worth looking up a critical rule if it
makes a difference between a Traveller being dead or
just mangled, but lengthy discussions about exactly
what the game designers meant by a particular piece
of phrasing are futile.
It is up to the Travellers and Referee to work
together to create a game universe that is internally
consistent and basically fair (if sometimes harsh)
towards both Travellers and their opposition. A little
common sense goes a long way and whenever
things get confusing the Referee should make a call
and then get things moving again.
In short, the rules are a framework to hang a Traveller
campaign on. In the right hands they can perform
well and, like any other tool, they can also be abused.
Traveller is not about accurately modelling the
universe; it is about playing a game for entertainment,
and the Referee’s part in that is applying common
sense and keeping things fair.

112

It is the nature of adventure gaming that there will
be setbacks and disappointments, and not everyone
will always get what they want out of every session.
Overall, however, the objective is to have fun and
people who are not having fun will find something else
to do with their time.
Thus the Referee must find a balance between being
flexible and accommodating his Travellers’ desires
without just handing them what they want on a plate.
Similarly, the Referee must not compromise himself too
much for the Travellers’ benefit. Running a game you
do not enjoy is no fun.
Generally speaking, Traveller should include some,
most, or even all of the following elements:
• New experiences, sights or places
• Varied obstacles to overcome
• Believability in terms of setting and actions of
characters encountered
• A chance to gain in monetary or other terms
• Character development in terms of both roleplaying
and material acquisition
• The occasional mystery or puzzling event, object,
or concept
• A feeling that the setting is ‘alive’ and things
change while life goes on elsewhere
Perhaps the most important thing is that the Travellers
should feel they are the captains of their own fate.
That is, they really do have freewill rather than being
pushed around by the plotline. This is not to say that
there will not be insurmountable obstacles in some
directions, nor that all plans will work, but overall
Travellers are more likely to enjoy a game where they
can create goals for themselves and achieve them
with a realistic chance of success.
The Referee’s job is to create a setting in which the
Travellers can do these things and people it with
interesting and believable characters. These rules are a
set of guidelines to assist in that task but in the end it is
the Referee who makes or breaks a Traveller campaign.

