PLAY BALANCE
Traveller does not subscribe to the concept of ‘play
balance’. A wealthy merchant will have as many guards
as she can afford or want, with skills and weapons
of a sort they would realistically have given local
circumstances. The guards need not be matched to the
ability or armament of the Travellers.
This works both ways. Sometimes the advantage will
be with the Travellers, sometimes with the opposition.
A clever group will use their skills and good roleplaying
to avoid fights they cannot win (and many they could)
and stack the odds in their favour. Those who just
blunder around trusting to body armour and automatic
weapons to solve every problem will eventually run into
something they cannot handle.
The Referee should be ruthless if the Travellers do
something really stupid. For example, in most localities
shooting at the cops will bring more cops, then special
response units with good weapons and armour. If the
Travellers are armed well enough to defeat the local
equivalent of a SWAT team, the authorities may decide
the planetary army or even the Imperial Marine Corps
will intervene. A group that decides they can defeat the
army is going to get killed, full stop.
On the other hand, being pursued by SWAT and a
horde of cops makes for a fun and exciting adventure.
The Referee should make the response realistic and let
the Travellers find a way to deal with it. Getting out of a
tight corner against hopeless odds by using desperate
measures is a staple of fun science fiction and good
gaming. Travellers who come up with a decent plan
should have a fair chance but the Referee should not
flinch from killing off Travellers who think they can
take on stupid odds and win just because they are the
heroes of their story.

There are other benefits to keeping a Traveller band
hungry. One is the fact that adventures sometimes write
themselves as the Travellers decide to go in search
of a necessary component or make a risky trade run
to raise money fast. It is also much easier to keep the
typical ‘five guys in a free trader’ Traveller group from
bypassing the plotline than it is when the ‘five guys’
command 1,000 mercenaries each and have a small
fleet of warships at their disposal.
It is certainly possible (even desirable at times) to run
a campaign at this level but the atmosphere of such a
game will differ from the typical Traveller adventure.

BUILDING A TRAVELLER UNIVERSE
Building an entire universe can be a daunting
prospect. Understanding the principles upon which
the Traveller Core Rulebook is based can help
in making some basic assumptions. Even if you
intend to deviate from how things are usually done
in Traveller, knowing the foundations they are built
upon will enable you to make informed choices.

Traveller provides a means to create an internally
consistent universe for one purpose only – to
facilitate gaming entertainment. They are not a
precise reflection of astrophysical theory as we
understand it today and they sometimes throw up
anomalous results. The Referee is free to tweak,
adjust or ‘fix’ the raw data created by the rules as
much as necessary to suit the needs of his universe
but creative explanations for oddball results can
bring a sense of wonder to a campaign. It is all down
to Traveller and Referee preference.
For the most part, Traveller uses metric measurements
such as seconds, metres and kilometres. However,
other measurements are convenient for other purposes
or have been influential due to their use in older
editions of the game. When determining the size of a
planet, for example, its Size code corresponds to the
world’s diameter in thousands of miles (i.e. Code 6 =
6,000 mile diameter, or roughly 9,600 kilometres).

Refereeing Traveller

The opposite side of this coin is the avoidance of bloat.
Bloat occurs when the Travellers become too wealthy
or powerful for the campaign. If the Referee gives
away huge amounts of Credits, dozens of starships
and extensive psionic training then the Travellers will
reach the stage where there is no point in them going
on adventures. It is possible to come up with a reason
why a duke, an admiral and a pirate lord might have to
deal with a major looming threat but after a while this
becomes implausible. In addition, the level of opposition
has to be immense for the adventure to be a challenge
and sooner or later this becomes dull or ridiculous.

It is far better to keep the Travellers hungry, letting them
profit a little from their adventures but always wanting
more. That way the Referee does not need to keep
coming up with reasons why yet another alien invasion
fleet has arrived or half the empire just revolted. A band
of gunmen might be a challenge for typical Travellers.
If the Travellers are all telepathic superheroes in
battle dress armed with fusion guns, a different level
of opposition is required, which becomes difficult to
explain after a while.

113

