T

The standard year in Traveller is based on the Terran
year; i.e. 365 days. Named months are rarely used;
instead, the day of the year is used as the date, with
Day 1 being equivalent to the 1st of January and
Christmas Day being Day 358. Dates are usually given
in the format Day-Year, e.g. 056-1111 is the 56th day of
the year 1111 since the Third Imperium was founded.
Weeks, of seven days, are important mainly in
terms of local and shipboard time. Each day has
a name: Oneday, Twoday, and so on. There is no
overall significance to any given day but many local
cultures have special or holy days. These might be
fixed (e.g. Day 22 of each year), semi-fixed (e.g. the
seventh Fiveday of the year) or may vary (e.g. the
Emperor’s Birthday).
One week (168 hours) is the baseline time for a
single starship jump, although actual duration varies
by slightly more than a day and a half each way in
a normal jump and more in the case of a misjump.
Many starship crews work on a two-week cycle; the
time taken to leave port, manoeuvre to the jump point,
jump to a new destination, manoeuvre to land and
then spend a few days in port conducting business
(and just getting out of the ship for a while!), tends to
be around two weeks.

Refereeing Traveller

Most commercial starships make two jumps in a
four-week period. For whatever reason (probably
because on a fixed two-world trade route, two jumps
is there-and-back), most starships work on a monthly
accounting period, paying crew and calculating
expenses each month. This is one of the few uses of
the month in Traveller and, of course, one ship’s month
may not be the same as another’s.

114

Distances between star systems are measured in
parsecs. Parsec is a contraction of Parallax Second,
a name determined from the mathematical/scientific
method used to define it and corresponds roughly
to 3.26 light years. In other words, a parsec is the
distance a radio message, a photon, or other lightspeed
phenomenon would travel in 3.26 years. Starship jump
drives are capable of covering one to six parsecs per
jump (depending on the drive type). Star maps are laid
out in one-parsec hexes, some of which contain star
systems. Other hexes have no system but may not
actually be empty. Rogue planets, comets and other
objects may lie between star systems, although finding
them in a vast area of empty space is problematic (see
The Great Rift box set for this type of exploration).

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Star systems are not all neatly spaced at one-parsec
intervals apart but jumps within a certain distance use
the same amount of fuel so it does not really matter to
a jump-capable ship whether two systems are 3.44 or
2.96 light years apart; the journey requires a jump-1
engine and a jump-1 worth of fuel in either case.
The actual distance between star systems would
matter for a non-jump capable ship travelling between
them but this is very rarely done due to the immense
time taken to get anywhere. Indeed, the jump drive
is often used for in-system jumps (sometimes called
microjumps) where the time required to cover
the distance in real space is longer than a week.
Microjumps need a jump-1 engine and use a jump-1
worth of fuel, as fractional jump drives have never been
invented and may not be possible. Likewise, other than
in the case of misjumps (which are dangerous and not
predictable), it is not possible to cover more than six
parsecs in one jump in a standard Traveller universe.

CREATING HUMAN AND
ALIEN SOCIETIES

To be plausible, a society must make sense when
viewed from its own perspective. The rules governing
a society may be complex to the point of being
incomprehensible but they must be consistent.
Weirdness for its own sake quickly becomes
unbelievable and makes it difficult for the Travellers to
make useful deductions or informed choices. To put
that another way; everything happens for a reason,
even if that reason makes no sense to outsiders.
This does not mean that variation cannot exist. Quite
the opposite, in fact. Even within a major interstellar
empire, cultural values and Tech Levels may vary
considerably. There are all manner of reasons why this
might be but the commonest is simple economics. A
world that has a small population and little industrial
base cannot trade for the high-tech goods it needs to
improve its Tech Level and there is little incentive for
others to invest in bettering the lot of a backward planet.
So within a few parsecs of one another, there might
be a number of very low-technology worlds and
several high-tech ones, with others in between.
Technology is often a mix of local and whatever
higher-tech imports can be afforded and kept
running. It is not uncommon to see steam trains or
internal-combustion cars operating alongside the
grav vehicles and starships of a rich elite.

R

