Unless a world is isolated, its inhabitants will usually
try to obtain offworld high-technology goods. This
creates markets for other worlds; a steam-powered
civilisation will neither be able to afford nor maintain
high-technology systems but a mid-tech world may
find the lower-tech society a useful market for its more
modest exported goods.

are such direct cultural parallels. However, the idea of
a corporate government might be inspired by British,
French or Dutch commercial holdings in India and
the Far East during the Colonial period. An Imperial
power might be inspired by 1807-era France but if the
uniforms are exactly the same as worn in Napoleon’s
time this will detract from the believability of the setting.

As well as toys and comforts for the elite, higher-tech
imports are generally considered desirable in the
military, commercial and industrial sectors. Even if a
world is not actively trying to improve its technological
base, as a rule higher-tech machinery represents
a good commercial investment so long as it can be
maintained and supported.

Similarly, direct historical parallels are not a good
idea. It might be that the main power in a game does
resemble 1880s Prussia, and there might be a great
trading empire which looks somewhat like Imperial
Britain nearby, but this in no way implies that the
equivalent of the First World War must occur.

Even in the case where there is little offworld
technology available, items will usually be
recognised for what they are, at least in general
terms. Outback savages might not understand what
a laser rifle is but a citizen of even a pre-gunpowder
society will recognise one as being a weapon. It is
not uncommon to encounter local attempts to copy
higher-tech items although the results are usually
crude and bulky, albeit sometimes effective.
Technological sophistication does not necessarily
lead to a particular type of society. A group of people
struggling to scrape a living (whether with fusionpowered tractors or by gathering berries to take back to
the cave) cannot manage a sophisticated social order,
but once the basic needs of survival are met people will
evolve whatever system works for them.

Historical or might-have-been Terran societies can be
used as a source of inspiration for worlds in Traveller
but this can be taken too far. If an alien society looks
exactly like ancient China or some kind of technoMayan civilisation, Travellers might wonder why there

Working through questions such as these will lead
to a consistent and believable society that might well
be wondrous, amazing or even incomprehensible to
outsiders, but which obeys its own laws of internal
consistency. Wonder has its place in Traveller, as do
oddball societies that should not work or just do not
make sense. However, weird-for-weird’s-sake should
be avoided in the interest of believability.
In short, the Referee can draw on Terran societies
for inspiration but must remember that this is the Far
Future, not a parallel of history. The setting must be
internally consistent and make sense; it does not have
to fit a particular model or paradigm.

MULTIWORLD EMPIRES
Multiworld empires have a problem in Traveller, the
same one that faced Earth’s great powers before radio
– communications lag. Messages to central authority
can move only at the speed of a jumping starship.
Even if the capital is just one parsec away, requesting
instructions and receiving them is going to take three or
four weeks by the time a message goes each way and
the situation has been analysed. As distance increases
this becomes even more of a problem.

Refereeing Traveller

There are many different government types in Traveller,
including corporate setups, tribal associations,
dictatorships, bureaucracies and democracies of
various kinds. However, two ‘impersonal bureaucracies’
are not necessarily alike. The basic means of
government will be much the same but the actual
society might be very different. One might have a
king as a figurehead, with the real power lying with
his administrators. Another might be the obvious
strangulous red-tape ridden monster and yet another
might be a frontier society where the only governmental
structure is a colonial land claims registry service.

Once the general parameters of a society are
established, the Referee needs to ensure it is internally
consistent and that it fits with the rest of the universe.
A great trading empire needs someone to trade with;
highly militarised societies get that way for a reason. Is
the threat internal or external? Current or traditional?
Is the society expanding or declining? Does the
government enjoy popular support?

115

