T

The solution to this problem is to devolve authority
upon trusted subordinates while maintaining as fast
a communications system as possible. The upshot of
this is that successful interstellar polities tend to be
either very compact or decentralised. In either case,
an interstellar polity will maintain some kind of courier
or communications service and will invest power
carefully. Maintaining a proper balance between local
governors being sufficiently powerful to deal with a
given situation, without becoming capable of breaking
away or overthrowing the central authority, is a constant
problem for an interstellar society.
The usual solution is to have some kind of government
at world or star system level, then subsequent layers
of authority creating regional groupings. If each of
these groups has sufficient resources to deal with its
own problems and central authority retains sufficient
power to crush dissent or deal with a large-scale
disaster, then the society should be capable of
functioning over a long period. The reality may prove
rather different, however, as politics and economics
pull the structure of society this way and that.

CREATING ADVENTURES

Refereeing Traveller

Traveller adventures can be very varied. A band of
Travellers might thwart a planetary invasion one week
and spend the next battling red tape to free their cargo
from the clutches of the Port Authority’s legal division.
Some situations can be resolved by negotiation and
interpersonal skills; others require the application of
guns and gadgets. The important thing is that the
Travellers and Referee enjoy the experience, and that
the game does not become stale and samey.

116

This is not to say that the setting needs to be liberally
sprinkled with alien artefacts and grand threats to the
cosmic order of things. Indeed, it is best if most of the
universe is relatively stable, in order to provide contrast
for more unusual elements.
Stable does not equate to boring. To a Traveller from
a high-tech world, grav vehicles, floating cities and
rubbing shoulders with alien beings in the shopping
mall may seem quite mundane, but a good Referee
can still make these things interesting. Being suddenly
in shadow because an entire city is passing overhead
might remind the Travellers that even the relatively
mundane can be wondrous.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Referee can do a lot with details of the setting to
make things interesting. Planetary ecosystems can be
strange without being actively hostile to the Travellers;
a vacuum landscape lit by dim stars provides a great
backdrop. Adventures that take place in interesting
regions tend to be more memorable.
However, it is people (of all kinds – humans and
aliens) that really make a setting come alive. Some
human cultures are stranger than many aliens and
the mix of high and low technology encountered in
starport bazaars or frontier colonies may well throw the
Travellers a curve ball. The actions of every person
in the setting will make sense from some perspective
but the Travellers may not understand them, which
may make their actions incomprehensible. This is fine
so long as these people remain true to themselves,
however weird they may seem to an observer.
Internal consistency is vital to a good universe.
Certain ‘handwaves’ – for example the existence
of a working faster-than-light drive – are necessary
to a good science fiction setting but they must
remain consistent. If there is no means of sending a
message to another star system faster than a courier
ship then this must always be true. It may suit the
plot for the Travellers to be able to send a distress
call and get help in hours but this would represent
a change in the universe’s fundamental rules. Such
changes must be approached with care to avoid
distorting the universe unrecognisably.
Conflict is an integral part of any story and therefore
has its place in Traveller. Conflict does not necessarily
mean combat, although the occasional animal attack,
brawl or full-on gunfight can be fun and is an excellent
finale to an adventure.
Conflict can also take the form of clashing business
interests, legal or bureaucratic harassment, non-violent
arguments, a struggle against the elements, or a race
against time, and all manner of other difficulties. Not all
problems can be fought through or blasted with heavy
weapons and a good campaign contains varied threats,
setbacks and hazards.
When combat does occur, this should be for a good
reason. Even the dumbest and most aggressive
animals will flee if overmatched or badly hurt. People
will try to even the odds by use of superior weapons or
tactics, and will withdraw, surrender or negotiate if this
suits their interests. In short, people, like the universe
in general, obey a set of sensible rules. Random
encounter tables and reaction charts should always be
tempered by the Referee’s common sense.

R

