ADVENTURE THEMES
The adventure themes presented here can be used
as a quick-start for an impromptu game session,
or when the Travellers decide to deviate from the
expected path. Each can be embellished to create a
myriad of possibilities.
Exploration: The Travellers need to explore unknown
territory, either to find something they need or for
the sake of scientific discovery. Perhaps they are
investigating ancient temples in the deep jungle or on
a frontier world, or diving into the thick atmosphere of
a gas giant. An exploration adventure can go almost
anywhere, with the Travellers facing dangers in seedy
backwater ports or from things better left undisturbed.
Trade Run: Travelling from one world to the next
while engaging in speculative trade is a staple of
many Traveller campaigns which throw up unexpected
adventure opportunities. Perhaps the cargo is not what
it seems, or the Travellers become aware of a great
opportunity they must rush to exploit. Rivalries with
other traders can explode into violence, or a rival might
come to the Travellers with a proposal that sounds just
a little too good to be true.
Magnificent Starfarers: The Travellers are asked to
help a group of people against a powerful enemy, which
might be a horde of dumb ‘monsters’, an invading army
or criminal gang. This does not have to be a straight
fight; the Travellers might teach the locals how to defeat
or evade their enemy, or might play out a romantic
comedy in a field hospital as the battle unfolds around
them. The story might begin after the locals’ defeat,
as the Travellers lead the survivors on a dangerous
overland trek to safety.

Disaster: Some disaster strikes just as the Travellers
are passing through or in port to conduct trade. The
nature of the disaster can be almost anything – fire,
flood, volcano, earthquake, starship crash or anything
else that upsets the natural order of things. Sealed
environments are good settings for such an adventure,
such as arcologies or orbital ports, creating a pressurecooker environment. Often desperate people are as
much a threat as the lava, floodwater or plague.

A to B: Travelling from one place to another overland
is usually straightforward but sometimes the journey
is the adventure. The Travellers may have to drive a
long way in an ATV, or perhaps they become marooned
and need to reach help. Matters can be complicated
by limiting the equipment available and/or giving
them wounded or helpless companions to look after.
Crossing 600 miles of hostile wilderness in a wellequipped ATV is one thing. Getting back with a dozen
civilians (including children) in tow, with little food and
one handgun (with three rounds left) between the entire
team is rather more of a challenge. Overland treks can
lead the Travellers into incidents and adventures along
the way. They may find ruins, people who need help,
natural hazards, hostile animals (or people)… the list is
endless. An A to B adventure can also take the form of
a pursuit, with the Travellers being chased or chasing
someone… or both.
Breach of Contract: The Travellers are part of, or
associated with, a mercenary unit hired for what
seems like a straightforward job – until it goes
spectacularly awry. Perhaps the mercenaries’ backer
pulls out and leaves them in hostile territory. Perhaps
some of the mercenaries go rogue, or perhaps it
becomes obvious the mercenaries have chosen the
wrong side and are acting as bully-boys for a corrupt
government. Getting out of the situation with their
skin and reputation intact will require the Travellers to
think beyond simple gunplay.
Distress Signal: The Travellers respond to a GK
(distress) signal. It may come from a community
threatened by natural disaster, a crippled free trader, a
starport under pirate attack, or a lone person lost in the
wilderness. The rescue might require a descent into a
gas giant to haul out a trader crew, landing a starship
atop a burning oil platform to take off the survivors,
or all manner of unusual situations. Often the reward
for success is small in financial terms but sometimes
a rescued person knows something important or may
become a valuable friend.

Refereeing Traveller

Hostage Situation: The Travellers become entangled
in a hostage situation as terrorists or desperate
criminals try to escape capture or bargain for
something they want. The Travellers might be among
the hostages or in a position to try to rescue them. It is
even possible that they might be the hostage-takers,
perhaps without intending to be.

Heist: The Travellers need to remove something
valuable from its current location and deliver it to
someone else, or perhaps escape with it for their own
use. The job might be entirely illegal, such as a bank or
train robbery, or might be illegal but morally acceptable,
such as the liberation of a hoard of gold bullion from
a corrupt planetary dictator. A heist adventure should
be set up such that a head-on attack is impracticable,
forcing the Travellers to take a less direct approach. it
will typically involve information gathering, misdirection
and stealth, although it could lead to an A to B situation.

117

