T

Precious Cargo: Occasionally, Travellers will be
stuck with a precious but fragile object. For example,
during a hurried evacuation of an orbital station, the
Travellers find themselves sharing an escape pod with
a six-month-old baby or priceless vase belonging to the
sector duke. Delivering the precious cargo to its rightful
destination can be the focus of the adventure or an
additional complication in a different situation.

Refereeing Traveller

Creeping Horror: Space has plenty of frightening
unknowns, making a horror style adventure a
possibility. Since Traveller is a hard-science game,
the Travellers will be predisposed to believe there is a
rational (if strange) explanation for it all. Perhaps there
is but even the rational can be terrifying. Maybe a mad
crewman, or a dangerous alien animal, is stalking the
ship, or the ship’s security system is malfunctioning.
Perhaps there is something stranger going on. Psionic
ghosts, jumpspace entities and even supernatural
beings are a possibility. Whatever the actual threat, this
kind of scenario is best played for tension, suspense
and doubt on the part of the Travellers.

118

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Playing Politics: The court of a powerful noble or
social circles of an advanced world can be a unique
adventure environment every bit as dangerous as
a war-torn frontier world. The Travellers may have
to thread their way through the intrigue of the court
whilst trying not to commit too many gaffes during
unfamiliar activities – formal dinners, parties, hunting
and the like. A straightforward approach might simply
not be possible, even if the Travellers can figure out
who their enemy really is.
The Mystery: Mystery situations can run for a long
time in the background of other adventures, with the
Travellers collecting odd snippets of information as
they do other things, finally leading to a big revelation.
Examples include the search for a lost naval courier,
whose final resting place is revealed only after a great
deal of investigation, or an attempt to find a psionics
institute willing to train the Travellers.

R

