War Zone: Military situations make a good backdrop
to adventures even if warfighting is not the focus of
the campaign. Whilst the occasional straight battle
can be an interesting change of pace – especially
if the Travellers are bound by rules of engagement
or enmeshed in a complex political situation, war
zone adventures do not have to be straight firefights.
The most interesting situations are those where the
Travellers have wholly inadequate resources, or
where a straight fight is an option but there is a way
to avoid open war.

On the other hand, if the Referee can rely on the
Travellers to (perhaps grudgingly) do what they
think is right, he can drop them into all manner of
adventures for little gain. Why should the Travellers
comply? For one thing, it makes for a better and
deeper game if they have some form of motivation.
For another, the balance of the campaign is better
preserved if the Travellers do not obtain thousands of
Credits for everything they do. In any case, it is the
adventure that makes the game fun, not the fact that
the Travellers gained thousands of Credits.

Revenge: The quest for vengeance can be a selffuelling adventure plot, in which the Travellers
themselves create adventure leads with no thought
for reward. This might be due to the Travellers’
backstory but the best revenge plots are based on
events in an earlier adventure.

The Referee can do a certain amount to encourage
Traveller cooperation with this ideal. The most
obvious rewards (other than cash, gear and
advancement) are medals and similar accolades
from authority but there are other ways for a Referee
to reward heroism. Examples of hero-rewards include
the Travellers seeing themselves on TV, or being
invited to discuss their adventures on a chat show.
Meeting people who recognise and respect them as
heroes is also a powerful reward.

ENCOURAGING HEROIC BEHAVIOUR
The Travellers should have a reason to do whatever
the adventure requires. The promise of reward is
one way to motivate the Travellers but is best used
when they are ‘hungry’ and in need of money. In
other words, an offer of Credits is more meaningful
when it translates to being able to get something
the Travellers need rather than simply sitting in their
investment portfolio. Giving out too much money
results in ‘bloat’ and basing too many adventures on
financial reward becomes boring after a while.

Overall, then, Traveller works best if the Travellers are
some sort of heroes rather than cynical advancementmachines. A smart Referee encourages this by
rewarding heroes… and the greatest reward of all is
to be treated as a hero. Not everywhere, perhaps, but
from time-to-time something should happen to make
it all worthwhile. And when just afterward, another
situation erupts… no real hero could possibly refuse
the call to adventure!

Refereeing Traveller

As a rule Traveller works best when the Travellers
are heroes. Reluctant heroes, dark heroes or flawed
heroes, maybe, but heroes nonetheless. A campaign
in which the Travellers are motivated only by financial
gain is severely limited, since the Referee must
contrive ways to get them involved and the options
are limited. The patron with a handful of Credits
becomes clichéd very quickly and Travellers who
shrug and walk away from the desperate villagers
– or take time out for a quick pillage and slaughter –
make for a poor game experience.

‘Good guys’ should get the occasional lucky break,
like help from a rival band of adventurers or local
security forces who are impressed by their reputation
for good deeds. Even little things like being given a
priority docking slot at the starport, or an invitation
to dinner with a local personality or the captain of a
navy ship, will serve to remind heroic Travellers that
they are someone special. When they buy a burger
and get free action figures of themselves, they will
know they have really arrived!

119

