INTERPRETING UWP DATA
The Universal World Profile allows a great deal of
information to be presented in a very compact form.
However, like all attempts to be concise, it requires
generalisation. It is easy to read off the code and
assume every world with a given Atmosphere code or
Law Level will be exactly the same, but this is a misuse
of the UWP. It is not intended to detail exactly a world
and its society down to the last nuance but instead is
meant to be a starting point for the Referee’s creativity.
Some inferences can be made from the UWP,
particularly about the physical characteristics of a
world, but beyond this there is room for considerable
variation – one B687484-9 world is not necessarily like
another. That said, the UWP is invaluable when the
Travellers decide to suddenly veer off the adventure
path and land at some backwater world the Referee
has not yet written up. The vanilla-flavour interpretation
of the UWP can be used when there is no time or need
for anything more detailed. Indeed, sometimes only
part of the UWP will be needed.
Often, Travellers are only interested in the starport.
If they visit a highport – perhaps to trade or buy stuff
with the payoff of their last mission – then typically
it will not matter what sort of world it orbits. The
planet in this case is little more than scenery but the
UWP allows the Referee to present the right colour
of scenery. If the Travellers land planetside, then
the question of whether they can wander around in
the open air or must stay inside a sealed structure
becomes important. Further detail is needed when the
Travellers actually go outside the starport.

THE THREE HS
Travellers as a rule are not unduly concerned with
precise details and will typically classify worlds as one
of the ‘three Hs’ – Habitable, Hazard and Hostile. Often
this is all the Referee or Travellers will need to know,
especially if the visit is a short one.

120

Habitable is shorthand for ‘fairly to very welcoming,
with breathable air and enough water to support
vegetation’. To qualify as Habitable, a world must be
‘liveable without too much effort’. Planets with plenty
of water and greenery may still be considered Hazard
worlds if they have severe weather, unpleasant
temperatures, serious atmospheric taints or other
factors that make them less pleasant than the
UWP code might suggest. Those that are more or
less habitable but have factors requiring caution or
equipment like a filter mask are sometimes classified
as ‘Borderline’ rather than Hazard.
Hazard has various degrees of meaning, ranging from
a near-habitable world to one with an unbreathable
atmosphere and significant natural hazards such as
volcanoes or meteor showers. The majority of worlds
fall somewhere in this category and as a result many
Travellers invent sub-classifications. The commonest
of these are Rockballs, Exotic worlds, Tainted worlds,
Desert worlds and Water worlds.
Hostile worlds are ‘out to get you’, in the sense that
there is serious threat to life. This can be obvious,
such as a corrosive atmosphere, or more insidious.
Examples include apparently habitable worlds where
the entire ecosystem wants to kill and eat visitors or
where certain diseases are endemic.

