The ‘3 Hs’ can be helpful to the Referee in deciding on
an adventure. If the Travellers are to be running around
unhindered in the countryside, the adventure needs to
be set on a Habitable or perhaps minor Hazard world.
One set on a Hostile planet will require more equipment
and there are some encounters that simply cannot
occur in this environment. In some cases, such as oneoff adventures, the Referee might decide which H is
required and then assign a UWP code to create one.

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS

The Travellers’ first impressions of a world are
usually determined by the Atmosphere code, with
Size and Hydrographics playing a smaller part. Upon
closer approach, settlement patterns will be noted.
These factors create the general characteristics of
the world, summed up by Travellers as ‘what’s it like
and who lives here?’

EXOTIC WORLDS

Exotic worlds tend to be settled in order to exploit
resources rather than because anyone wants to live
there. They typically require specialist life support
equipment, which pushes people into larger and
more centralised settlements. Most Exotic worlds
are obviously different to the norm, such as a large,
high-gravity planet which has no atmosphere or one
whose atmospheric composition is highly unusual.
Life on an Exotic world tends to be very strange to
humans, although creatures may not be inimical.
Exotic worlds tend to fall into the Hazard category,
although sometimes they are dangerous enough to
be considered Hostile.

HABITABLE WORLDS

Habitable worlds typically look the part, with vibrant
blues and greens of water and vegetation, with an
amount of clouds indicated by the Hydrographics
code. Borderline worlds with an atmospheric taint
may look much the same, although many taints
discolour the atmosphere.

Habitable worlds are by far the most diverse in terms
of culture and technology. Easy living conditions
and local food mean Habitable worlds are the most
desirable for settlement. No reason is needed beyond
‘a good place to live’. One consequence of this is
that secondary colonisation often takes place when a
Habitable world is opened up. The main colonial effort
may be well-funded and lead to carefully planned cities
but secondary landgrabs may be much less organised.
It is not uncommon to find Habitable worlds with a
central city culture that is quite different from that of the
outback homesteads. In extreme cases, the capital/
starport and the rest of the planet might as well be in
different star systems, so different are their societies.

HAZARD WORLDS

Hazard worlds vary considerably, although their nature
is often obvious on approach. Planets characterised
by desert, covered in icefields or water will typically
be identifiable ‘by eye’, as can the presence of some
atmospheric taints. The severity of a taint will determine
whether Travellers consider the place borderline
Habitable or a Hazard world.
Hazards can have variable effects on a world’s
settlement pattern. Atmospheric taints, unless very
serious, tend not to influence settlement too much.
People will spread out just as readily as they do on
Habitable planets, providing the taint can be handled
with simple measures such as masks and sealed
dwellings. Other hazards tend to concentrate people
either where they can live most easily or where life
support can be readily provided.

Interpreting UWP Data

To qualify as Habitable, a world requires a Thin,
Standard or Dense atmosphere (code 5,7 or 8) and
sufficient water to support a diverse ecosystem
– Hydrographics code 3–9. This alone does not
necessarily indicate a ‘garden world’; there may be
other factors that make it less than attractive as a
home. Those most suitable for settlement are called
Habitable by Travellers, although the term is used in a
wider sense by surveying agencies to mean any world
that can support sentient life.

They may show a tight settlement pattern but those
with an indigenous population or where settlers
have had time to spread out will tend to have more
dispersed and random population groupings. There
is little to prevent small groups from heading into
unclaimed territory and creating a town, unless
colonial development is strictly controlled. As a result,
Habitable worlds tend to have a group of major cities
with fringe areas between them, in which society and
available technology can vary considerably. There is
also the possibility of indigenous societies or races,
splinter groups and the like.

121

