T

Thus on a water world, people will tend to group on
islands or in seabed cities – building a small settlement
in deep water is prohibitively expensive. If natural
conditions that can be exploited, such as rafts of
seaweed, then low-tech colonies at sea are possible.
If not, the only inhabitants will be on land. The same
goes for worlds with extremely dense atmospheres
that can only be breathed unaided at high altitude,
creating ‘islands’ atop high ground, and low-pressure
worlds where deep canyons can be inhabited without
advanced equipment. It is quite possible that two
separate cultures may develop, with low-tech people
living where they can and high-tech cities built where
their inhabitants choose, such as atop resource sites.

HOSTILE WORLDS

Interpreting UWP Data

Hostile worlds do not always look the part.
Occasionally an apparently green and pleasant
land hides an ecological deathtrap. However, more
commonly Hostile worlds show it. Corrosive or toxic
atmospheres tend to be obvious, with ominous clouds
which may be thick above a twisted landscape. If
the atmosphere is thick enough, there may be life on
a Hostile world but it will not be familiar. Creatures
evolved to breathe toxic gases and survive a corrosive
atmosphere tend to be simple forms of life – although
there are exceptions – and extremely tough.

122

Settlement on Hostile worlds tends to be centralised,
largely due to the expense of providing protection
against the environment and the ability to deal with
failures. Low-tech (and possibly mid-tech) societies
cannot survive on such a world without significant
outside assistance. The existence of one suggests
either an indigenous people or a colony that cannot
maintain high technology but has received it in the past.
One example is a colony that has recently been cut
off, or a settlement damaged by conflict. Either way,
the population’s days are numbered unless they can
secure outside assistance by some means.

ROCKBALLS

Worlds with an Atmosphere code of 0–3 are typically
referred to as Rockballs by Travellers, although some
use the term only for worlds with a trace atmosphere
or less. Rockball worlds tend to have a landscape
similar to Earth’s moon, with many impact craters
and little or no erosion. Those close enough to a star
to receive significant light will have harsh contrasts

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

between light and dark. Standing water is virtually
impossible on an Atmosphere 0–1 world, although
ice can be found in areas that do not receive direct
light. Worlds with a very thin atmosphere may have
some water and even life, although commonly this
is primitive. Most Rockball worlds would qualify as
Hazard; it is rare for one to be actively Hostile since
this requires conditions unlikely to exist.
Settling a Rockball world requires a reason and
sufficient technology to support the population. The
two common reasons for establishing a colony on an
uninviting world are resources and territorial control.
In the latter case, a settlement may have been
established simply to claim ownership of a world or
facilitate the construction of a starport which would in
turn support and profit from passing interstellar trade.
Typically, such colonies are centralised, with the entire
population living close to the starport.
Where a world was settled for its resources, the
population may be more spread out if dispersed
extraction sites are located. A larger population typically
indicates that some or even most of the mining and
extraction settlements developed industry, growing
into cities rather than large workplaces. Either way,
the settlement pattern on a Rockball world tends to
be a smaller number of relatively large concentrations
rather than a sprawl of low-population homesteads, due
to the expense and difficulty of providing life-support
equipment for a thinly spread population; concentration
is simply more cost-efficient.

TECHNOLOGY DISTRIBUTION
The Tech Level of a world indicates the best
technology locally available, although this is open to
some interpretation. Maintaining a high-technology
base requires a great deal of effort and industry, and
is simply not possible with the local resources of a
low-population frontier world. If such a world has a
high Tech Level then chances are it is supplied with
imported equipment provided by an offworld benefactor.
This might be a colony owner, or group supporting
an outpost. There is the possibility that the locals are
somehow producing high-tech equipment themselves
but that would be an intriguing oddity. The Travellers
might well want to investigate…

R

