T

Increasing Tech Level and Population tends to also
imply more infrastructure. Cities need to be linked by
heavy goods transportation and efficient passenger
services. Roads, waterways and skies will become
more crowded as Tech Level increases. High Law
Levels might imply restrictions on travel or heavy
environmental protection which limits the use of
transportation outside the cities.
The kind of transportation used will change the flavour
of a world. As a rule, mass transport and heavy goods
movement are based on cost-efficiency rather than
technical capability, so even an advanced world might
have railroads and seagoing ships plying between its
cities. However, gravitic technology is likely to push out
other forms of transportation sooner or later. A hightech world (TL10 or above) might use orbital craft to
move cargo between the orbital port and downports at
the major cities, with no need for roads or other ground
links between them. Within cities there may be light
ground vehicles in use but a world that has had grav
technology for a long time will have a very different
infrastructure pattern to one that is just developing it.

Interpreting UWP Data

FLESHING OUT A WORLD

124

The Referee can run through a simple process when
fleshing out a world for a brief visit or long adventure.
This process begins with the general characteristics of
the planet itself, then proceeds to habitation patterns
based on population size, distribution and Tech Level.
The general outline of a world’s population distribution
and habitation pattern tends to become obvious
even from orbit. Concentrations of lights on the night
side indicate cities, with agricultural areas standing
out from wilderness by their colour and regularity of
borders. However, this may not always be the case.
Mid-tech and the lower end of high-tech societies tend
to be very obvious but at very high Tech Levels cities
may blend into the scenery and be less obvious. Few
cultures deliberately hide cities but this is possible
once technology reaches the point where selfcontained settlements are possible or where a culture
chooses to live underground.
Economic and technical factors tend to influence
population and industrial distribution, with social and
cultural matters both exerting influence and receiving
it. Worlds colonised in the past few hundred years
tend to have cities grouped relatively close together,
whereas those whose society developed there or which

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

have regressed and rebuilt usually show a more even
distribution. It is not uncommon for a ‘developed’ world
to have huge areas of wilderness which are virtually
uninhabited, with the population grouped into a cluster
of cities or even a single one. Most inhabitants will tend
to forget about the rest of the planet; only Travellers
may have reason to go there.
There are always exceptions, of course. Most are
minor but the Referee can always create a unique
interpretation of the UWP code that does not fit the
usual pattern. For the most part, however, the UWP can
be extrapolated using common sense and a guideline
put forward by Traveller’s creator, Marc Miller himself:
‘everything is driven by economics’. In other words,
society will develop in a manner driven by what can be
afforded balanced against what is needed. People will
gather where there are jobs and industry will develop
where there are people.
Deviations from this typically happen for cultural or
social reasons. People might establish an inefficient or
cost-ineffective settlement at a holy site or just to be
away from those they dislike but there will always be a
reason why the simplest and least expensive approach
was not used. Once extensive resources are available,
grand projects might be undertaken for the sake of ego
or prestige, or perhaps reasons of comfort. There will
still usually be an economic factor, however.
For example, it is easier to build cities on level ground
than on the seabed or a mountainside, and flying gravsupported cities are vastly expensive. They might be
built for reasons of prestige, showcasing the world’s
technical abilities or political importance, but there must
be some benefit to doing it this way or else the money
will be spent on simpler and easier projects.
This principle should be used as a guide when
interpreting the UWP and fleshing out a world – there
needs to be a reason why the world is the way the
Referee is describing. Of course, that reason can be
convoluted and surprising in some cases, leading to a
very odd society. For the most part, however, worlds
will follow the guidelines mentioned above. Those that
do not will pique the Travellers’ interest and prompt
investigation that can lead to unexpected adventures.

R

