T

RAVELLERMAP
AND THE WIKI

Travellermap (travellermap.com) and the Traveller
Wiki (wiki.travellerrpg.com) are excellent resources
but some care is needed when using them. The Wiki
can be edited by any user, which sometimes means
segments of someone’s campaign appear there and
do not fit well with the Third Imperium universe. Even
where a page is listed as ‘canon’ this is not always
entirely accurate – the canon data on a given page may
have been amended and expanded by a user.

CONTRIBUTING TO THE WIKI

For most Referees this will not matter. The data on
the Wiki is a starting point at most and the universe
is malleable to fit with what the Referee needs.
There is no need to slavishly follow the mainstream
universe’s canon if you need something different
for your campaign. If you do decide to use what is
contained in the Wiki, it is worth being aware that two
milieux are supported by it.

Ideal contributions expand logically upon or
extrapolate from existing canon sources. For example,
the automatically generated data page for a given
world could be expanded into a highly detailed writeup
of its physical features, culture and interactions with
another system, but if this data clashes with the official
(canon) information on that system a cleanup will
eventually remove offending sections – Traveller’s
canon always trumps unofficial contributions, no
matter how cool they are!

The first part of an entry is the ‘classic’ era of Traveller,
the Third Imperium universe, with data correct for
around the year 1105. Many pages also have an entry
for the New Era setting, in which big changes have
occurred in Charted Space. This can cause confusion,
as states and regions often have similar but different
names – an Imperial Navy base might become a
Regency naval base further down the page.
It is also worth noting that the Wiki does not contain
material drawn directly from the current Mongoose
Publishing edition of Traveller, as canon is considered
to be in a state of revision with the most recent books.
In some cases, non-canon entries in the Wiki vary
considerably from the current Third Imperium universe,
although on the whole the two tend to broadly coincide.
Overall, the Traveller Wiki is best used as a source
of ideas and general outline of conditions in the
Third Imperium universe. Those wishing to write for
publication have long been advised to use it as a guide
to what canon materials are available rather than a
repository of that information. The Wiki is an excellent
resource but by its nature is prone to contain at least
some material applicable to a single person’s campaign
rather than the mainstream Third Imperium universe.

The Traveller Wiki is open to contributions from
anyone, although it is overseen by a small staff
who make most of the additions and remove
inappropriate content. Fans are very welcome
to contribute to the game’s background but a
contribution has the best chance of becoming
permanent if it fits well with the existing universe.

It is important to avoid universe-changing or universebreaking entries. In some cases this is obvious; it
would be clearly inappropriate to add a personality
to the Wiki who shot the Duchess of Mora and led
a revolt that resulted in an independent Spinward
Marches, since this contradicts published sources. It
would, of course, be perfectly all right to do this in your
own campaign (although the duchess might object) but
Wiki entries must reflect the ethos and background of
the Third Imperium universe.
Some universe-breaking changes are less apparent,
at least at first glance. For example, someone
might decide to add a small three world power from
their own campaign to the Wiki. That could be an
excellent addition, happily used by other Referees.
However, it is possible to go overboard without
really intending to. If this power has dozens of highly
capable battleships, questions start to arise. Why is
it not more powerful? How is it crewing these ships
or paying for them? How does this affect the local
balance of power? If the addition alters the universe
too much, it will not be useful.

125

