T

Thus it is important to consider the implications of
any addition to the Wiki. It is tempting to add your
own Traveller’s super-empire and fleet of reactivated
Ancients cruisers but this is an exercise in ego rather
than a useful contribution to the universe. A more
modest insert would be far more likely to survive.
The best approach is to consider whether your
prospective contribution is valuable to just your
campaign, or to everyone’s. Adding personalities,
worlds, corporations and creatures that expand the
Third Imperium universe whilst fitting comfortably
within it benefits all users and represents a worthy
contribution to the Traveller-related body of knowledge.

TRAVELLERMAP
Travellermap is a bold attempt to place the whole
Third Imperium universe online in a readily useable
format, and it succeeds admirably. The system data
is continually being updated, eliminating some rather
fanciful star types and impossible UWP codes. This
work is incomplete as yet but most core regions of the
Third Imperium universe have been updated.

Travellermap and the Wiki

In addition to useful features such as a jump map
showing all destinations within one to six parsecs,
Travellermap presents the UWP code of a world,
with expansion and interpretation available at a click.
The entry for each world links to the wiki page for the
system, which provides further expansion of the data.

126

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

However, many entries are automatically generated
from the UWP codes and may not represent the
detailed version presented in Traveller game materials.
There are also some systems that have been expanded
‘unofficially’ and which may not match official canon
publications. The rule of thumb for Travellermap is that
the data on the Travellermap page is the current canon
UWP, star type and so forth, whilst what is presented
in the linked Wiki page may or may not be the canon
expansion of that data depending on who contributed it.

THE GALACTIC MAP
Zooming Travellermap right out brings up a map of
our galaxy. At this scale, Charted Space is little more
than a speck. In other parts of the galaxy there are
named regions, giving intriguing hints to what might
be out there and what could be planned for the future
of Traveller. One of these regions is the home of the
Essaray, a culture of biological robots who feature in
the Fall of Tinath campaign in the Traveller Starter Set.
The galactic map illustrates just how little of the
galaxy has been explored by humans and how much
remains wide open for Referees to create their own
setting far from Charted Space. It is possible that
humans reached distant parts of the galaxy in the
past, perhaps aboard long-range missions sent out
by the Ancients. Their empires could have risen and
fallen in distant pockets of stars without anyone in
Charted Space ever knowing.

R

