THE ORION SPUR
The region known as Charted Space lies within the
Orion Spur of the Sagittarius Arm of the galaxy. It
is sometimes considered an arm in its own right,
although it spans the gap between the Sagittarius
and Perseus Arms.
Charted Space occupies only a small section of the
Orion Spur. It is possible to proceed for thousands of
parsecs to spinward or trailing along the arm before
reaching the end or entering the Sagittarius Arm
proper. To reach the galactic core, as the Zhodani have
attempted, or explore rimward as the Solomani are
said to have done, requires crossing between spiral
arms. This involves a long voyage simply to reach the
edge of the Orion Spur, then a transit of the sparse
region between arms. This region is not completely
devoid of stars; there are large clusters as well as
isolated star systems. Stellar density is low compared
to the region within the spiral arm, making transit
difficult but not impossible.

THE ZHODANI CORE EXPEDITIONS
Travellermap’s zoom feature gives a sense of the scale
of the Third Imperium universe and the amount of effort
that has gone into development over the past decades.
From the major polities of Charted Space it is possible
to trace the route of the Zhodani Core Expeditions. This
narrow strip of mapped territory represents enormous
effort and gives some idea of just how much of the
galaxy is available for Referees to develop.
The Zhodani Core Expeditions terminate at Ikklifl, with
a few systems beyond it explored. This is the absolute
outer limit of human exploration, at least as far as the
people of Charted Space are concerned. The density
of stars in the galactic core is vastly higher than in the
spiral arms. Exploring this region – either in-game or
as a project to develop the universe – would be an
enormous undertaking.

Travellermap and the Wiki

Zooming in on Charted Space reveals an intriguing
fact about its location. There are wide rifts running
right across the Orion Spur, whose only easy crossing
point lies right in the centre of Charted Space. Known
locally as the Great and Lesser Rifts, these interstellar
gaps appear to be parts of the same phenomenon.
Although tiny compared to the vast distances between
spiral arms, these rifts have shaped the development of
interstellar society within Charted Space.

127

