The one-parsec scale gives more information and
can be considered the ‘adventure scale’ for Traveller.
Roughly a subsector is presented at this level, showing
starport classes and trade zones. The one-parsec scale
is often used to plan trade runs or chart a route through
the local area while avoiding likely naval patrol zones.

This is the great advantage of Travellermap. It
allows the Referee to quickly assess the local and
wider situation and acts as a spur to creativity when
something does not quite fit the norm. It also permits
a group of Travellers to plan their route or pick a
destination, and similarly enables the Referee to quickly
see where the Travellers might decide to go next.

STAR SYSTEMS
Zooming in closer than the one-parsec scale adds
the world’s Universal World Profile to the map and
clicking on the hex calls up a box with a link to the
system’s Wiki entry. Once expanded, this box gives
access to additional data.

USING THE MAP SCALES

A system that is very distant from economic
powerhouses and off major trade routes is unlikely
to receive a great deal of trade. Yet if it has a highend starport there must be a reason why it was built.
Perhaps the port was part of a failed project to expand
commerce in the region, in which case the port
might be a run-down shadow of its intended glory. Or
perhaps the project is ongoing and the world has a
boom-town atmosphere. No naval base nearby means
less patrols, which in turn suggests a hazardous
system prone to piracy and smuggling.

At this point, the Referee has at his fingertips a
quick reference to the entire star system – number
and type of stars, terrestrial planets and gas giants,
UWP for the mainworld and additional data. Much of
this is presented as codes but expanding the entry
produces an explanation.

Travellermap and the Wiki

Travellermap’s zoom feature can be used equally well
to search for an adventure location or get an idea about
the strategic and economic situation in a system. A
great deal of background information can be inferred
from the different map scales. Is the world in a frontier
system? At an astrographic choke point? Is it isolated
or on a main? How far is the nearest high-population,
high-technology world or naval base?

129

