T

From the entry for Imisaa, we find it is a desert world
whose atmosphere is too thin to breathe, with abundant
resources and a population of around 100 million. It is
controlled by an offworld power and has a modest Tech
Level, all of which suggests that Imisaa is a resourceextraction site rather than a homeworld. It will have some
local industry but the emerging picture is of a mining
colony. The starport is of high quality but may be geared
more towards bulk ore transfers than general traffic.
However, a look at the local map indicates that Imisaa
is part of a large cluster of worlds, which includes its
owner-world, Tobia. With a number of poor quality
starports nearby and trade routes marked as passing
through the system, it seems more likely that Imisaa is
quite an important commercial port. Could this be the
world’s primary source of revenue instead of mining?
Perhaps, although it is possible both are important.
Either way, it seems likely that most profits go to
business owners on Tobia and Imisaa receives only
whatever investment they deem sufficient.

Travellermap and the Wiki

The combination of world and map data allows the
Referee to quickly gain an impression of what a
given world is like. This is particularly useful when the
Travellers decide to veer off the intended path, land at a
wholly unexpected location and start asking questions
about the local culture. The Referee can interpret this
information in other ways and might flesh out Imisaa
quite differently to these first impressions, but for a
Referee in a hurry this method is invaluable.

130

Further inspection of the map tells us that Imisaa has
a naval base and lies close to the Imperial frontier. The
nearest major power is the Aslan Hierate, separated
by a buffer zone of independent systems unlikely to
pose much threat to the Third Imperium. Thus whilst
the base might be part of a contingency plan for the
nightmare scenario of all-out war with the Hierate, it
is more likely that the base is small and intended to
support patrol assets along the border or into neutral
space. Its facilities will be geared to destroyers and
small patrol or escort vessels, rather than battleships.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The world data contains a link to Imisaa’s Wiki page
but this is at present an automatically generated
placeholder with no information beyond standard
entries derived from the world’s codes.

THE JUMP MAP
Near the bottom of the world’s data box is a row of
links labelled J-1 to J-6. Clicking one of these brings
up a map of all star systems within that many parsecs.
Imisaa’s jump-4 map shows all systems the Travellers
might head to next and might suggest good prospects
for a trade run. The local map can also be used to
quickly determine where a ship is headed or has
arrived from, based on its jump capability and the
quality of local starports.

R

