TARPORTS
AND SPACEPORTS

S

By convention, the most important port in a star
system is designated the starport. This can be
slightly inappropriate, such as when the grandly
named ‘starport’ is actually a marked field with a few
huts nearby, or where a mid-tech world designates
an airport, sea port or railway nexus as its port for
lack of anything better.

The orbital component of a Class A port is often
a large city in space. There may actually be no
downport as such; multiple planetside spaceports
might be served by the central highport. Alternatively,
a large surface facility may also exist. If this is the
case, it will be a major economic hub for the planet
located at or close to the capital.

The starport code for a world gives a general indication
of the level of service available and also tends to
indicate its size. It is possible to find a very high-quality
but tiny port but this sort of setup is not commercially
viable so it is unlikely to become the system’s main
port even if all larger facilities are of much lower quality.
Thus, whilst the starport is generally thought of as the
‘best’ port in a system, a better term might be ‘most
suitable for general traffic’.

Where a low-population or economically unimportant
world has a high-end port, this usually indicates the
port was set up to support trade passing along a
nearby route. Often the host world gets a very small
slice of revenue from the port and sometimes none at
all. A Class A or B downport on a low-tech world may
be an island of high-technology culture surrounded
by wilderness or frontier settlements. Relations
between portside and indigenous populations may
not be good. In some cases the downport is a token
settlement, with the highport being essentially a
separate culture in orbit.

In the Third Imperium universe, starports are
considered to be Imperial territory (at least, within
the Imperium; other cultures have different practices)
whereas spaceports belong to the host government.
This is, however, subject to variation. In most cases,
the highport and downport are both run by a single port
authority, usually a corporate body. Occasionally both
are run by separate organisations whose interactions
can cause problems for visitors.
Certain general characteristics are indicated by the
starport code.
Class A: An ‘A’ code is assigned to excellent-quality
installations, usually with construction yards attached.
The size of a port’s shipyards can vary considerably.
Small-ship construction is commonplace, building
vessels of common types up to 1,000 tons or so.
Some ports can build larger vessels but many such
craft are built at specialist yards. These may or may
not be co-located with a major starport but the facility
will need a port of some kind.
A Class A port can conduct starship overhauls and
modifications, and sells both refined and unrefined
fuel. Class A ports are major trade centres in their
own right and may have offworld goods unavailable
elsewhere on the planet. They usually consist of a
large orbital component (the highport) and a planetary
component (the downport).

Class B: Code B is assigned to large or high-quality
(sometimes but not always both) installations. Ports
serving systems that see a lot of interstellar traffic
usually grow into a Class B installation. To qualify for
this code, a starport must be capable of conducting
maintenance and overhauls, and must have facilities
for refining starship fuel. It will usually have yards
capable of constructing non-starships such as
shuttles and launches. Class B ports are often
important trade centres.
Class B ports must also have at least a reasonably
capable orbital component. As a general rule, the
downport component of a Class B port will see more
traffic than the highport and most ships will either
land at the downport or dock at the highport but
conduct business planetside.
Class C: Code C is assigned to ‘average’ starports,
which can vary considerably. To qualify, a port must
have at least a basic orbital facility, although this might
be nothing more than a docking station with a shuttle
service planetside. Both refined and unrefined fuel
are usually available but starship building facilities
are highly unlikely to be present, and only fairly basic
maintenance or repairs are possible.

133

