T

Class D: Code D is assigned to a very basic port.
A Class D port is almost always a downport with
no orbital component at all. Only unrefined fuel is
available and no repair facilities are on offer; what
facilities there are may be quite primitive.
Class E: Code E indicates what is often termed a
‘frontier installation’. A Class E port can be nothing
more than a ‘usual place to land’ or a known safe
area. There are no facilities as such, although
there might be a settlement close by where ad-hoc
services can be obtained.
Class X: Code X applies to worlds with no port at
all, such as unexplored, interdicted and uninhabited
worlds. Not only are there no port facilities, there is
no guarantee that a landing site will be safe. Ground
subsidence, flooding and other problems can make an
apparently useable site hazardous.
As a general rule of thumb, starports can be considered
to offer the following services.

Starports and Spaceports

E: ‘Safe place to land but there might well be
nobody there’.
D: ‘Safe place to land, you can get fuel and supplies'.
C: ‘Fuel, supplies and some skilled maintenance.
Commercial and freighting opportunities for small ships’.
B: ‘High trade volume, skilled maintenance and
repairs, regular passenger and bulk freight services
passing through.’
A: ‘Huge trade volume, shipbuilding. Lots of big ships
coming through on a frequent basis.’

134

SPACEPORTS
A star system or even a single planet might have
multiple spaceports. Sometimes these vie for
the status of starport, especially on balkanised
worlds that have a number of states clamouring for
interstellar trade. Picking the wrong port on such
a world can result in a very different experience.
Spaceports can be assigned a code, forming a
continuation of the A-E system for starports.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Class F: This is assigned to a high-quality port
capable of handling a large volume of traffic. Class F
spaceports usually have facilities equivalent to a Class
B starport or perhaps a high-end C. A few are as large
and capable as Class A ports and may have additional
facilities such as large shipyards or a naval base.
Class F ports often serve large cities on a planet with a
central starport, or important offworld installations, such
as colonies and the like.
Class G: A G-code is assigned to a basic or fairly poor
spaceport, equivalent to the lower end of Class C or
better than average Class D starports. A Class G port
is likely to be found at a minor city or typical offworld
asset such as a mining base on a gas giant moon.
Class H: An H-code is typically assigned to a very
basic or improvised facility equivalent to a low-end
Class D port, or simply a landing area next to a small or
temporary installation. A scientific outpost with a dozen
personnel, which receives a supply ship once every
three months, would probably have Class H port.
Class Y: Code Y indicates no spaceport is present. The
starport equivalent code, Class X, can also be used.

PORT FEATURES AND EVENTS

Some ports have additional capabilities or different
characteristics to those indicated by the standard
codes. Any of the special types listed can be
implemented at the Referee’s discretion. Alternatively,
when generating a random starport, a special feature
is present on a 2D roll of 8+. The exact feature can be
determined by the Port Features table or chosen by the
Referee. Similarly, an event might be taking place at
the port. Events are less permanent than features and
occur on a 2D roll of 6+.
All of these features are subject to Referee
interpretation or veto. For example, a Class E starport
is not likely to be a major trade nexus, at least not for
interstellar trade. However, it might be a centre for
unusually large amounts of planetside trade.

R

