Port feature
2D

Special Feature

2

The port is built on the ruins of an older structure, or may be all-but-ruined itself.

3

The port has a large ‘alien quarter’ which may be inhabited by a single culture not normally seen in this
region, or a mix of races.

4

The port lacks capability in an area that would normally be present. For example, a Class A port would
normally be expected to have some starship-building capability but for some reason this port lacks it,
either temporarily or permanently.

5

There is no dedicated downport as such. Instead, the orbital port serves a web of spaceports which may
be in competition for business.

6

The port is a specialist type, with minimal facilities outside this area of expertise.

7

An installation is present. See Installations on page 138.

8

The port is an independently run freeport rather than being tied to the mainworld government.

9

The port is directly run by a major shipping line or political entity, giving preferential treatment to favoured
clients and making life unusually difficult for others.

10

The port is a major trade nexus.

11

The system’s main port is not at the mainworld but instead orbits another body in the system. Sublight
craft connect the two but most visitors stop over at the starport without visiting the mainworld.

12

The port is of unusual construction. A downport might be a seaport/rail nexus; a highport may be built out
of a couple of old starships welded together.

FREEPORTS

A corporate freeport will typically have a higher Law
Level and be subject to a great many regulations.
It is likely to be clean, efficient and rather bland. As
an entity dedicated to making money rather than
supporting trade, a corporate freeport is likely to have
many businesses dedicated to parting Travellers from

The operators of a corporate freeport are always
looking for a good deal and an extra Credit. They may
offer preferential services – in return for an annual fee,
of course – or have ‘members only’ areas which offer
benefits unavailable to other visitors.
An independent freeport is in many ways the opposite
of this. Typically run on a shoestring, independent
freeports can only sell what they can obtain and that
fluctuates greatly. Operators will try to make deals
that guarantee a reliable source of spares, supplies
and goods for their shops but are at the mercy of
market conditions. Law Levels tend to be lower and
trade largely unregulated. This means that, in theory,
it is possible to obtain almost anything in the seedier
freeports but only if it is available and the seller wants
to part with it. Those who come to a freeport seeking
illicit arms and advanced armour are often disappointed
to find several people who would happily sell nuclear
warheads to any passer-by… if only they had any.

Starports and Spaceports

A freeport is an independent starport or spaceport,
and can have a starport code even if it is not the
system’s main port. Where most ports are owned by
a world or multi-world society, a freeport is not; it is a
commercial entity in its own right. There are different
kinds of freeport, from vast corporate installations
which make large amounts of money supporting
commercial traffic in the region to seedy backwater
ports where anything can be had for a price. There
is a distinction to be drawn between a corporateowned commercial port that exists to support the
corporation’s ships (which are the main revenue
earners) and a corporate freeport, which makes its
money from the shipping that comes through. Popular
entertainment links the term ‘freeport’ with pirates and
smugglers but most make whatever profit they can in
legal ways – which is not saying that their prices are
fair or the service is any good, of course.

their money. Expensive and luxurious hotels, casinos
and lavish recreation facilities are common; many
corporate freeports are more like holiday resorts than
transportation hubs. Prices in shops are likely to be 1020% higher than usual – at least – and the selection of
goods will be enormous.

135

