T

RUINS
Starports can become ruined quickly due to
catastrophe, or slowly due to neglect. A port that has
suffered severe damage from war or natural disaster
will normally retain its original rating until there is no
longer any realistic prospect of it regaining its normal
status. For example, a wrecked Class B starport will
continue to be rated as such in navigational databases
until it becomes obvious that it is not going to be rebuilt.
This can cause problems for Travellers who arrive
expecting to find a bustling port, only to discover a
remnant of the former personnel struggling to keep
a small section of the installation going using parts
scavenged from the remainder.
Conversely, Travellers might approach a port listed
as Class C, D or E, and which can provide only the
services associated with installations of that kind but
discover that the activities of this low-capability port
go on amid the ruins of a much greater installation.
Ruins may not be of a starport; some ports are built
atop ancient structures or incorporate remains of a
long-vanished culture. This might be a mysterious hightechnology site or the home of a stone-age civilisation.
A port might continue to operate alongside eerily
deserted structures of an abandoned city, picked over
by scavengers but otherwise largely ignored.

Starports and Spaceports

SPECIALIST PORTS

136

Most starports have a wide range of capabilities,
although what level they can provide these services to
depends upon their size and class. Specialist ports may
have little or no capability outside their primary area
of expertise. It is far more common to find specialist
spaceports than starports but sometimes the only port
in a system was built with a specific purpose in mind
and little regard for other activities.
Industrial Ports are specialist installations catering to
bulk transport of raw materials and finished goods to
and from industrial or resource-production sites. Such an
installation will usually have minimal passenger-handling
facilities and is optimised to turn around big ships like
bulk freighters in the shortest possible time. Smaller craft
can be handled but not as efficiently. On some worlds,
the main starport can be considered an industrial port;
such places are often rather grim for visitors.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Launch Facilities are not spaceports as such but
sometimes co-opted to act as one. For example, the
launch facility used by a mid-tech world’s own space
exploration might be developed into a rudimentary
starport when ships begin to arrive from other
systems. Launches of locally produced vehicles may
or may not continue, depending on circumstances.
Where it is possible to buy advanced spacecraft, a
developing port’s operators will try to do so but those
without the funds or in regions where nothing better
is available may continue to launch chemical rockets
from what has become their de facto starport. A
launch facility is not really set up to handle commercial
offworld traffic, although its personnel will normally
be able to extend at least a measure of assistance to
starfarers who come to visit.
Makeshift Ports are often improvised or set up on a
temporary basis. Some will eventually gain a measure
of permanence, with proper facilities built over time
and services expanded until a proper starport exists.
However, where populations are low or transient the
port may be nothing more than a few prefabs and
comms antenna plus a concreted area, or it may be
the usual landing-place for the supply ship supporting
a frontier mining colony, in which case the only
support facilities will be the camp’s own resources.
Makeshift ports sometimes operate for years or even
generations, often without becoming any better than
they started out. Most are abandoned when the
outpost or facility they serve is no longer in use. A
seaport, rail junction or airport on a mid-tech world
which has been pressed into service as a starport
could also be considered to be a makeshift port.
Military Ports exist, rather obviously, to support
military activity in space. A military port differs from a
naval base in that it serves primarily logistics ships
and troop transports – the vessels that put boots on
the ground of other planets rather than the warships
that fight for control of space. Most military ports are
located in remote areas and closed to commercial
traffic, although sometimes a small military port will be
co-located with a civilian installation. Military ports are
usually but not always crewed by military personnel;
some use civilian contractors. A military port will
usually have defences of some kind and may be a
major nexus of a world’s orbital defence system. More
commonly, ground-based weapons are located away
from port installations for tactical reasons.

R

