Passenger Ports have minimal cargo-handling
facilities but are geared to either large personnel
movements or luxurious travel, often associated with
resorts or major tourist destinations. Political centres
usually have a specialist passenger port, with more
conventional trade running through other installations.

TRADE NEXUS

Private Ports are owned and operated by a political
or economic body which may or may not permit use
of the facility by outsiders. A private port differs from a
corporate freeport in that it exists to serve the interests
of the owning group rather than making money from
interstellar traffic. Some ports allow outsiders to use
part of the facilities, either at greatly increased prices
or subject to a lower quality of service than those with
access to the main facility. A true private port is restricted
to a select group. This might be heads of a government,
leaders of a church, direct couriers going to and from
the headquarters of an organisation, or even a single
very rich individual. Private ports tend to be small and,
by definition, not capable of handling large volumes of
commercial traffic. Some private ports can only berth
specific types of ship while others are more general and
in some cases offer very luxurious facilities.

A trade nexus typically has a booming commercial
market, with cargoes energetically traded in high
volumes. This has the effect of forcing down prices,
although often only for those who can afford to buy
in bulk. Smaller ships can benefit from picking up the
odd bits and pieces left over from these trades but
cannot compete with big shipping operators for the
prime bargains. A trade nexus can therefore actually
be a less attractive market for small-ship operators
than it might seem, although this is counterbalanced
by the greater availability of goods.

Some ports become an important focus for trade, either
temporarily or on a long-term basis. This may result
in the port seeing more traffic than its starport code
would suggest, although when traffic expands there will
eventually be investment and upgrades.

EFFECTS OF PORT FEATURES

The typical effects of various features can be found on
the Port Feature Effects table.

Port Feature Effects
Effects

Freeport, Corporate

Personal purchases and starship consumables typically cost 10–20% more than normal.

Freeport, Independent

DM+D3 added to checks to determine buying price and subtracted from rolls to find
cargo. Determine the DM anew for every cargo.

Ruins

Effects vary depending upon the nature of the ruins.

Specialist Port, Industrial

DM-4 on checks to find cargo and passengers. Freight (raw materials or industrial
goods) will always be available but lot sizes are multiplied by five. For example, a
major freight lot normally is 1Dx10 tons; at an industrial port it is 1Dx50 tons.

Specialist Port,
Launch Facility

DM-3 on all checks to find passengers, freight and cargo. All cargo sizes and
passenger numbers are halved.

Specialist Port, Makeshift

DM-1 on all checks to find passengers, freight and cargo. All cargo sizes are halved.

Specialist Port, Military

Civilian ships may be heavily restricted and subject to additional security checks.
Otherwise, the port functions as normal.

Specialist Port, Passenger Passenger numbers are tripled. Checks to find freight or cargo are subject to DM-3.
Specialist Port, Private

Outsiders may not be permitted to use the port at all. Fees may be payable, or prices
higher, for those permitted.

Trade Nexus

DM+2 on all checks to find cargo and passengers. Twice the usual number of lots
are available. When determining the size of each lot, roll 1D and multiply the normal
amount by x1D. DM-2 applies to purchase price for lots over 100 tons.

Starports and Spaceports

Feature

137

