T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Starports and Spaceports

Port Events

138

2D

Special Feature

2

The port is under embargo or boycott by a major shipping corporation or other influential body. Personnel
and vessels may be harassed but there will be no attempts at violence.

3

The port has been neglected for a long time or suffered recent serious damage. Most ships bypass it,
which has greatly reduced the volume of traffic. Quantities of Common Goods available are down to 25%
of normal, while Trade Goods originating at the mainworld are up 100%. DM+/-3 applies when determining
buying prices – Trade Goods prices are worse for the Travellers, Common Goods are better.

4

The port is flooded with naval personnel, military troops, or law enforcement officers. They may be
responding to a problem at the port or staging for some other trouble spot. In any case, security checks will
be much tighter than usual.

5

The port is obviously run-down and short of investment. Many businesses have closed. Quantities of all
goods are halved.

6

The port is experiencing a slowdown in traffic. The quantity of available Trade Goods is unaffected but
Common Goods are halved. Prices for minor items in stores are 10% lower due to reduced demand.

7

Advantageous economic conditions (rumoured or real) have resulted in large numbers of entrepreneurs
and small-ship operators converging on the port. Markets are unusually vibrant, with double the usual
number of passengers, cargoes and freight available. Encounters with Rivals or old friends are likely.

8

The port is experiencing a surge in traffic. Prices in the stores are 20% worse than usual – higher when
the Travellers buy and lower when they sell. DM-2 applies on the Modified Price table, reflecting the way
greater volume of trade is forcing the price down.

9

The port is currently receiving a great deal of investment. Areas are being expanded and refurbished, and
shipping traffic is up. Quantities of available goods are doubled.

10

A group of entrepreneurs have opened up a new market – or convinced investors that one exists. The
amount of freight bound for one or more nearby worlds is tripled and investors are desperate to get it there.
They are willing to pay 2Dx5% above normal freighting rates.

11

Piracy, smuggling and conflict have increased in the region, pushing up the cost of repairs and starship
components as well as refits and maintenance by 20–60%. (2D3x10%).

12

The port is undergoing significant expansion or reconstruction. This might be going well or slowly,
depending on local conditions. In the meantime, sections are out of order, and workarounds may create
opportunities to bypass normal channels.

PORT EVENTS

Events can be quite long-term but are more subject
to change than features. If an event is taking place,
the Referee should roll 2D on the Port Events table or
choose an appropriate event.

INSTALLATIONS
The starport code gives an indication of the services
available but in some circumstances more extensive or
additional facilities are available.

Army Bases serve the armed forces of a world or
interstellar power. Most are separate from the main
starport and served by their own military port but
upon occasion the main port will be co-located with
an army base. This may not be the ‘home’ army of
the world but could be an occupying force or the
military of an interstellar power.

R

