Defence Bases are home to assets defending the
world or system. This might be as basic as a few
ground-based missile launchers or control facility for
orbital defence platforms, or might house a flotilla of
fighters and patrol craft. Sometimes a system will have
several defence bases, especially if it houses a major
naval base. In this case, craft for the defence of the
system tend to be located at defence bases – close to
their patrol areas or zones of interest (such as a gas
giant or asteroid mining facility) whilst jump-capable
naval assets will be housed at a naval base, which will
have its own defensive craft.

Naval Base house naval assets and can vary
considerably in size or role. The most basic naval
installation may be nothing more than a logistics
storage point or refuelling station supporting patrol
vessels. Other bases are specialist facilities, for
example conducting training or intelligence operations.
Larger bases house fleet assets ranging from a
handful of patrol ships to the dreadnoughts of a
major fleet. Naval bases are usually separate from
the starport and surrounded by a region of restricted
space but smaller installations may be co-located or
even serve as a system’s starport.

Maintenance Facilities are specialist installations
designed to support large numbers of vessels or small
craft. Such a facility will be present in a naval base
and private installations are not uncommon on major
trade routes. Some maintenance facilities are built at
a system’s main starport; others have their own small
spaceport and receive traffic directly. Since crews often
take a vacation whilst their ship undergoes its annual
inspections and maintenance, some facilities have
extensive recreation amenities, or may be built around
tourist attractions. While not really set up for it, a
maintenance facility could manage to put a spacecraft
or even a small starship together from parts if available,
although only on a cottage-industry basis.

Naval Depots are particularly large naval bases,
usually the home of a major fleet and occupying or
at least dominating an entire star system. There may
or may not be a mainworld in a depot system – in
some cases the entire population of the star system
consists of naval personnel and their dependents,
plus civilian contractors and workers supporting the
depot. Most depots have shipbuilding facilities, vast
repair yards and a ‘mothball fleet’ of obsolete vessels
that could be reactivated at need. In systems with a
large civilian population, the depot will be separate
from the main civil port but in a ‘navy system’ the
depot might be the only port in-system, often with a
civil section to support passing traffic.

Starports and Spaceports
139

