T

Research Installations are large and important
facilities dedicated to scientific research. Some are
secret, some less so, but most tend to be secure and
located in a remote area. Some installations conduct
a range of research while others specialise. Research
installations are usually indicated by a Greek letter,
e.g. Research Station Gamma or Research Station
Omicron. These names give away nothing about the
nature of the research conducted there. Some are more
open about their affiliation or nature, with designations
such as the Windon Institute or Imperial Long-Range
Communications Research Centre. A modest-sized
research station may be co-located with the starport, or
the installation might be the only port in the system.

Starports and Spaceports

Scout Bases, or Exploration Bases, are variable
in size and importance. Some are little more than
outposts used for refuelling exploration ships or
monitoring an unusual world. Exploration bases
exist to support operations in a particular area and
may have specialist vessels such as rescue tugs
or mobile laboratories. Other scout bases are quite
large and general or specific in purpose, including
training installations and regional command centres.
Scout bases are often co-located with small
starports; in some cases the port is run by scout
personnel as part of their duties.

140

Shipyards or spacecraft construction facilities are
normally present at high-end starports but major
shipbuilding yards tend to be large installations in their
own right. They may be co-located with a starport
(not necessarily a Class A port) or have their own
spaceport. Most construction facilities are relatively
small, with big freighters, liners and battleships being
built in a number of specialist yards.
Way Stations are the equivalent of naval depots but
geared to exploration or the activities of the Scout
Service. They have extensive facilities and large
amounts of shipping present. Most major Scout
Service missions begin at a way station and specialist
or very long-range (or just plain large) scout vessels
are located there. Way stations may also serve as
concentration points for survey and courier vessels,
and are always administrative hubs.

STARPORT LAW AND DEFENCES
Starports are an obvious target for raiders and
criminals, since they typically represent the most
intensive economic activity in an entire solar system.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Most ports have some form of law enforcement and
at least rudimentary defences against attack. In a
small port, especially an independent freeport, this
might be on an ad-hoc basis, with business owners
maintaining guards and everyone fighting to defend
whatever parts of the port they consider important
in the event of an attack. Larger installations have
more organised defences.
A starport operated by the host government will
likely have the same Law Level as the planet it is on,
or perhaps one or two Law Levels lower if a strict
government wants a more permissive, welcoming
environment to encourage trade. Where a port is
independent of the host government, such as most
ports in the Third Imperium universe, its operators
will set their own laws.
Commonly, the highport component will have a set of
laws geared to the ‘interstellar norm’ and the downport
will correspond to local Law Level. Sometimes the
downport will have an ‘interstellar’ Law Level as well,
with local law applying once the extrality line is crossed.
To randomly determine the Law Level of a port, roll 2D
and subtract the result from the Law Level of the host
government, applying the following DMs:

Class A port

+7

Class B or F port

+5

Class C or G port

+3

Class D or H port

+1

Class E port

0

A result lower than 0 indicates no law beyond personal
defence of property. Set Law Level to 0.

LAW ENFORCEMENT AND SECURITY
To determine the level of law enforcement and security
available at a port, roll 2D on the Port Enforcement
table, with the following DMs:

Class A port

+6

Class B or F port

+3

Class C or G port

0

Class D or H port

-3

Class E port

-6

R

