EGALITIES
AND LAWBREAKING

L

Sometimes Travellers have to break local laws to get
something done or will fall foul of the authorities for
some reason. The threat of punishment for engaging in
illegal activity can be used as an adventure motivator –
perhaps the Travellers are offered dismissal of trumpedup charges in return for their assistance with a problem
the colony director has.
Legal complications can be used to keep the
Travellers’ behaviour in check. This is easiest when
there is an interstellar polity with effective inter-world
law enforcement but there are still options out on
the wild frontiers. So long as any form of interstellar
communication exists, world governments have the
option to pursue those who break their laws. This is
unusual in the case of minor offences but those who
commit serious crimes may be subject to extradition or
pursuit by agents of the offended government.
If Travellers leave a world without answering for their
crimes, or their crimes are discovered after they leave,
the authorities will decide what to do about them. Their
response depends on the local Law Level and severity
of the crime. The Crimes table indicates the type of
crime and its severity, along with the associated DM
applied to sentencing. This table is an expansion of the
one on page 225 of the Traveller Core Rulebook.
The level of severity of a crime can be moved one
(or in extreme cases, two) categories either way by
aggravating or mitigating circumstances. For example,
a petty theft offence committed by someone who

was starving might be downgraded to Trivial or even
Insignificant. The same theft from a charity or highprofile individual might be considered more serious.
Likewise, an armed robbery carried out with a fusion
gun would also be viewed as more serious.
As a general rule, crimes that disrupt economic activity
or damage the financial well-being of a large number
of people tend to be considered very serious. It is also
possible that a crime’s severity might be increased
or decreased due to a PR exercise, perception of the
perpetrator or victim, or other factors.
The DM given in this table can be used on the
Sentencing table (page 225 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook) but is also used to determine the world
government’s response if the Travellers skip
town with unpaid parking tickets or a warrant for
arrest after their murder spree, as shown on the
Government Response table.
Bounties are set at Cr1000 x 2D + the severity DM of
the crime. A Large Bounty is five times as great and
a Huge Bounty is 25 times as great. Bounties are
usually offered for the return of the criminal in a state
fit to stand trial, although if they are killed resisting
arrest the bounty is usually payable. If the criminal has
already been sentenced to death or is likely to be, a
dead or alive bounty may be offered.

Crimes
Severity

Example

DM

Insignificant

Technically illegal behaviour that causes no real harm

Law Level -10

Trivial

Littering, minor driving offences

Law Level -8

Very Minor

Assault, petty theft

Law Level -5

Minor

Destruction of property, significant theft

Law Level -3

Moderate

False identity, armed robbery

Law Level -2

Serious

Manslaughter, major fraud or financial/economic crime

Law Level -1

Very Serious

Murder, extremely serious fraud, significantly impairing starport operations

Law Level +0

Appalling

Mass murder, serial killing

Law Level +2

Horrific

Once-in-a-generation atrocity

Law Level +5

143

