T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Government Response
2D+ DM

Response

6 or less

No response. Warrants will remain outstanding if the Travellers return, but no pursuit undertaken

7–9

Extradition request forwarded to worlds within 2D parsecs

10–12

Bounty Set

13–15

Large Bounty Set, Agents Despatched

16–18

Huge Bounty Set, Agents Despatched

19 or more

Huge Bounty Set, Special Task Force Established

An extradition request indicates that other worlds
are notified that the criminal is wanted. If there is an
extradition treaty in place, other worlds will attempt to
detain the criminal and ship them back for trial.
If Agents are despatched, this indicates that D3 law
enforcement agents or contracted bounty hunters (or
assassins) are sent to look for the criminal. Contracts
and assignments are usually for a year, although in
some cases are extended repeatedly.
A Special Task Force consists of 2D agents whose
sole job is finding the criminal and bringing them in or
eliminating them, backed up by whatever intelligence
and support services are available. Such a task force will
usually have warrants requesting assistance from other
world governments, which may or may not be honoured.

Legalities and Lawbreaking

EXTRADITION TREATIES

144

Within a multiworld polity such as the Third Imperium,
DM+4 applies when determining whether treaties
exist. Note that this increases the distance over which
an extradition treaty is likely to exist, as well as the
chance of one existing at all.

WEAPON-RELATED CRIME
The Law Level of a world indicates how much formal
law exists within the jurisdiction of its government.
A very low Law Level generally means there is no
formal ban on certain weapons but this does not mean
‘anything goes’. Even if there is no law against it,
someone wandering down the street with a plasma gun
will attract attention and suspicion. Business owners
will have their own rules about who can bring what onto
their property and as a rule anyone with something
worth stealing will be opposed to strangers bringing
heavy firepower into their shop or onto their land.

Extradition treaties may exist between worlds and a
government will typically attempt to establish treaties
with nearby worlds. Local politics may mean treaties
automatically exist or cannot exist, depending on
relations between the world governments. Unless
such a factor exists, an extradition treaty is in place
on a 2D roll of 8+, with the average of the two worlds’
Law Level as a positive DM and their distance apart in
parsecs as a negative DM.

This means it is possible to be told ‘you can’t bring
that in here’ even if the planet has no law against
that weapon. Those who ignore such a warning may
well find themselves under fire. A low Law Level often
translates to high levels of personal armament and the
willingness to establish a security force either to protect
a single business or the community as a whole. Those
that think ‘no laws’ means they can do as they please
may find a whole town united against them.

For example, Marduk (Law Level 6) is 2 parsecs from
Thebus (Law Level 0). The average of these Law
Levels is 3. Subtracting 2 for their distance apart gives
DM+1, applied to a 2D roll. On 8+ an extradition treaty
exists between the two. Oghma is just 1 parsec from
Marduk and has Law Level 4, which would suggest
DM+4. However, Oghma is a cess-pit of slavers with no
regard for anyone else’s laws, so the Referee decides
that no treaty would be in place.

Weaponry and combat-related equipment can be
grouped into five categories, determined by its
ability to win fights and cause large numbers of
casualties. These categories do not supersede Law
Level prohibitions but can be used by the Referee
to determine how seriously weapons infractions are
viewed. A Traveller might be able to buy a particular
weapon on a low-law world but could later run into
trouble if caught with it. Penalties increase depending
upon the category of the weapon.

R

