Many interstellar polities operate a licensing system for
purchasing weapons, which uses the same categories.
This applies when purchasing from reputable shops and
dealers, who can be held accountable. Criminals and
shady dealers do not much care about such niceties
and may charge higher prices for weaponry – or the
weapons might have a history the Travellers would
prefer not to be associated with.
To buy a weapon legally, a Traveller must have
appropriate licensing in place if it is necessary. For
an over-the-counter sale, the weapon must also
be legal to own in that locality. It is possible to buy
weaponry for export – for use by security personnel
aboard a starship or a mercenary force, for example
– even if it is not legal for use on that world.
Legally bought weaponry comes with appropriate
documentation and a reasonable certainty that it
does not have a crime connected with it.
If weapons are not available legally or the Travellers
do not have the right paperwork, they must use other
methods to obtain their desired level of firepower.

CATEGORY 1: UNRESTRICTED
Unrestricted weapons can be purchased without any
need for a license, so long as they are legal where
bought or the buyer can demonstrate that the weapon
or equipment is to be transported out of that locality to
somewhere it is legal to own and use.
Unrestricted weaponry includes almost all melee
weapons (some very powerful or exotic weapons may
be subject to licensing), bows and less-lethal weaponry
such as tranq guns and stunners. In addition, light
personal armour such as mesh is unrestricted.

Most dealers will require the purchaser to
demonstrate the capability for safe use, which
translates to either presentation of appropriate
certification or an accreditation session on a firing
range (at the buyer’s expense). Travellers who have
gained Gun Combat 1 or better through a formal
period of training will have such documentation, or
it can be obtained by taking a course and gaining
a certificate – or forging one. Skill level 0 is quite
sufficient to satisfy the needs of this course.

Category 2 is generally considered the ‘polite
preparation’ level in most localities. That is to say,
whatever the local Law Level, someone carrying
heavier weapons than this will attract attention unless
they are obviously a mercenary, security guard or
similar armed occupation. Explosives with a civilian
application are typically considered Category 2 items,
as are light starship weapons such as beam lasers.

CATEGORY 3: PARAMILITARY SMALLARMS
Most localities are not unduly concerned with people
owning or carrying a pistol or shotgun but paramilitary
weapons can cause large numbers of casualties if used
indiscrimitely or to commit a crime. For this reason, the
purchaser must demonstrate ‘a suitable need’ as well
as safe use as per Category 2. Bodyguards, security
personnel and licensed mercenaries are considered to
have a ‘suitable need’, as are those who employ them.
Thus, the captain of a free trader who wants to buy a
couple of laser carbines will be considered to have a
legitimate need under most circumstances.
Category 3 items include light automatics such as
assault rifles and submachineguns, laser weapons
and heavier personal armour such as flak. More
powerful starship weapons such as pulse lasers and
conventional missiles are considered Category 3 items.

CATEGORY 4: MILITARY SMALLARMS
Military weapons are generally restricted as they pose
a significant threat to law enforcers and the civilian
population. Even where a weapon is legal, the vendor
will normally require licensing to be in place as they
may be held accountable for misuse of that crate of
gauss rifles they sold last week
Category 4 equipment includes heavier or more
capable personal weapons such as advanced combat
rifles, gauss weapons, grenades and mid-tech support
weapons such as general-purpose machineguns,
anti-tank rockets and grenades. Combat armour is a
Category 4 item, as are most heavy starship weapons
such as torpedoes, fusion and plasma guns, and
particle accelerators. Obtaining these weapons can be
difficult for civilian operators.

Legalities and Lawbreaking

CATEGORY 2: CIVILIAN SMALLARMS

Civilian smallarms include handguns such as semiautomatic pistols and revolvers, shotguns, semiautomatic rifles and carbines. Light personal armour
including mesh and cloth are also within this category.

145

