If the Travellers do not have the appropriate licensing
in place, they can get around this problem in a variety
of ways. Documentation can be forged or dealers can
be bribed. However, military arms are a lucrative item
and few dealers will risk their license – or a long prison
term – for a few Credits. Again, services rendered
might be a way to get around the problem.

UNDER THE COUNTER WEAPONS

Alternatively, the Travellers could find a dealer who
does not care about niceties of licensing. Finding
someone who will sell weaponry to anyone, either
under-the-counter in an otherwise reputable outlet or
from a back-alley ‘dealership’, requires some effort.
This can be the subject of an adventure, or can be
abstracted using the Arms Dealers table.

If the Travellers are caught with a Category 4 or 5 item,
even somewhere it is not illegal, they may be required
to present documentation to show it is legally owned.
This can happen when a free trader is boarded by a
customs party, for example. It is sometimes possible to
blather through such a situation, for example if there are
a lot of security threats in the region and the Travellers
have a good reputation for honest trading. If not, items
will be confiscated and the Travellers may be arrested.

The Travellers should make a Streetwise check,
subtracting the world’s Law Level.
Clean weapons come with plausible documentation
(which may actually be real) and no associations
with crime or dangerous previous owners. Hot
weapons have no documentation and are subject to
a number of complications.
Roll 2D on the Hot Weapons table for the item’s ‘story’.

When the Travellers buy from a less-than reputable
source, they can expect to pay extra. Roll 2D and add
the world’s Law Level. Asking price is increased by
10% times the result of this roll and may be increased
further by other considerations such as the Travellers’
relationship with the seller.

If weapons are used in a crime, the category of the
weapon is applied as a DM on the Sentencing table
(see the Traveller Core Rulebook, page 225).
Note that weaponry carried as part of a properly
documented cargo is unlikely to get the Travellers
into trouble, provided it is not headed for a destination
where it is illegal. Resale as cargo at a starport is
entirely legal even if the weapons would be illegal to
own on that world – an item that stays in a shipping
container is not the authorities’ problem.

Arms Dealers
Highest ‘Clean’ Category Available

Highest ‘Hot’ Category Available

0 or less

Unavailable

Category 1

1–4

Category 1

Category 2

5–8

Category 2

Category 3

9–12

Category 3

Category 4

13–16

Category 4

Category 5

17 or more

Category 5

Almost Anything

Hot Weapons
2D

Complication

2–3

Item is defective or missing parts. This will not be immediately apparent. If multiple items are bought
it may be possible to cannibalise some to get others working.

4–5

Item was used in a serious crime. Being caught with it will lead to arrest and possibly prosecution.

6–7

Item is not in great condition but is functional and has no major complications.

8–9

Item was stolen from a notable source such as a large arms firm or mercenary unit, which is quietly
seeking its return.

10–11

Item was taken from the bodies of previous users, whose associates are seeking revenge.

12

The item is in good working order but the price is very high. Multiply price by 3.

Legalities and Lawbreaking

Streetwise Check

147

