SLOWER-THAN-LIGHT
Conventional physics states nothing can travel faster
than light in normal space. Methods such as the jump
drive bypass this limit by moving the vessel into another
kind of space and returning it to the normal universe
elsewhere. For a vessel attempting to approach the
speed of light by simply accelerating for a long time,
the amount of energy required to accelerate the craft
increases exponentially and trends to infinity. Thus the
faster a vessel is going, the more energy is required to
accelerate it further, with this energy becoming infinite
at the point lightspeed is achieved.
This does not make it impossible to travel between star
systems at slower-than-light speeds. A vessel could
accelerate to a reasonable proportion of the speed of
light and then coast most of the way to its destination
before slowing down over a period of months or years.
At 10% of the speed of light it is possible to cover a
parsec in around 35 years, although with acceleration
and deceleration taken into account the transit time
is more likely to be about 50–100 years between
reasonably close star systems.
A vessel moving at a significant proportion of the speed
of light would experience time dilation effects, making
the voyage seem shorter to the crew and passengers
than time passing in the outside universe. The effect
becomes more pronounced as speed increases,
making a long journey at a high fraction of the speed of
light essentially a one-way ticket into the future.

148

It is possible for a long-lived species to undertake
such a voyage but for races like humans the obvious
solutions are to use generation ships, with one or
more generations of passengers born and living
aboard, or ‘sleeper’ ships with the passengers in
suspended animation. A rotation of crews, working
for a couple of years before returning to stasis, would
be able to maintain such a vessel and deal with
eventualities as they arose.
Within the Third Imperium universe there are several
examples of species using slower-than-light travel for
expansion or even to maintain an interstellar state.
Most use sleeper ships but there are examples of
species that carry the means to produce cloned or
otherwise artificial people at the far end of the journey.
Robotic ships also offer possibilities. A species might
stay on its home world but dispatch robotic vessels
to bring back necessary materials over a time frame
of centuries. Such long-term planning would have to
be accompanied by high technology and it is possible
that robot ships might still be building infrastructure
on distant worlds long after the parent civilisation
became extinct. Native races might be enslaved by
robotic invaders to labour in the name of a distant
and long-dead empire.
Remnants of this sort, along with forgotten ‘sleeper’
ships or their dead hulks, could be introduced
into a Traveller campaign without distorting the
setting. They would have to come from somewhere,
prompting questions about whether the vessel
encountered is the precursor of an invasion or just a
lost fragment of an earlier era.

