THE JUMP DRIVE
The standard means of interstellar travel in the Third
Imperium universe is the jump drive. This translates
the vessel into an alternate place or state, a private
pocket universe just for that ship. A jump is generally
considered to take approximately 150–180 hours
(roughly a week) and covers up to one parsec (a
parsec is 3.27 light years) per jump number per week –
i.e. a jump-3 ship can transit up to three parsecs (9.81
light years) in a week during a normal jump.
A standard jump drive uses fuel equal to 10% of the
tonnage of the vessel per parsec. Thus a 500-ton jump3 ship needs 50 tons of fuel per parsec and can jump
one to three parsecs at a time. It is possible to carry
fuel for multiple jumps but there are practical limits on
how much of a ship can be given over to fuel tankage.
Jump travel is not without its hazards. Even a wellmaintained vessel on a known route can suffer a
misjump. A minor misjump might shorten or lengthen
the duration of the jump and/or change its direction and
distance by a huge amount. More serious misjumps
can damage or destroy a ship as well as altering the
exit point. There are also tales of very strange things
happening in jumpspace, including unintelligible
radio signals and strange phenomena that can drive
crewmembers insane.
In the Third Imperium universe the jump drive obeys
certain well-understood rules:
• A jump takes approximately seven days, typically
plus or minus a day, and a jump capable vessel
can cover any distance up to the ship’s jump
number in parsecs in that time.
• A jump requires fuel equal to 10% of the ship’s
mass per parsec.
• The ship is completely cut off from the outside
universe whilst in jumpspace.
• Jumping within a gravity well is dangerous.
Using the jump drive is never without at least some
risk but hazards can be minimised by following certain
guidelines. Most spacers will not even consider
engaging a jump drive when within 100 diameters of a
planet, star, or other massive object. Even something
as small as another ship can cause a serious
misjump incident.

The 100-diameter limit is more a useful rule of thumb
than physical law. A very dense but small object has
sufficient gravity to make jumps hazardous beyond 100
diameters. However, for an average rocky planet the
100-diameter rule is a good guideline. Most spacers
calculate a safe jump as ‘100 plus a bit’. Jumping
within 10 diameters of a massive object is extremely
dangerous and would only be attempted in the most
desperate of circumstances.

JUMP MASKING

A jump whose emergence point is too close to
an object with strong gravity can have serious
consequences. Whilst it is possible (but very risky) to
jump from within 100 diameters of an object, it is not
usually possible to jump directly into an area ‘masked’
by the 100-diameter limit of an object. Occasionally
a ship does emerge within this limit but this causes
damage to the jump drive and can sometimes cause a
ship to disintegrate on emergence.
It is not possible to hit a precise emergence point
within the 100-diameter limit. Most commonly,
attempting to do so will cause the ship to precipitate
out of jump (with damage to the drive) at the 100
diameter limit. Sometimes the ship will misjump
instead and end up somewhere entirely different. The
duration of the jump is not affected by any shortening
of the distance covered due to jump masking – it is not
possible to make a jump in a couple of days by aiming
for a distant point and being precipitated out of jump
by an intervening object.
Jump masking has some important implications for
interstellar travel. A star like our sun has a 100-diameter
limit of about 140,000,000 kilometres, or a little less
than one Astronomical Unit. This means that virtually
every location in the solar system inside Earth’s orbit is
masked by the sun. In other words it is not possible to
jump directly to Mercury or Venus; the only way to get
there is by sublight travel.

149

