T

Very large stars mask huge volumes of space. A
giant star might have a diameter of 100,000,000 to
1,000,000,000 kilometres, and would mask an area 100
times greater. Even the outer planets might be masked,
requiring a long transit to and from a safe jump point.
Systems with multiple stars may also experience
significant jump masking, with some worlds having
periods when they are masked and others when they
are not as a result of relative orbital positions.
Calculating the masked radius for a gas giant requires a
definition of its radius, which is usually taken as the point
at which atmospheric pressure reaches 1 atmosphere.
For a large gas giant (e.g. Jupiter) this is around 6070,000 kilometres. For a small gas giant (e.g. Uranus
or Neptune), a figure of around 25,000 kilometres is
common. This means that a small gas giant has a
100-diameter limit of some 2,500,000 kilometres; for a
large gas giant it will be around 6,500,000 kilometres.
This has implications for shipping to a port located on
a gas giant moon. The moons of Jupiter have orbital
radii ranging from 128,000 kilometres to 24,000,000
kilometres, with the larger moons being closer in. It is
possible that a mainworld that is also a gas giant moon
would be masked, requiring ships to make a long transit
in and out from the jump point. This might have strategic
advantages but it adds time to a merchant ship’s trip
which will harm trade, stunting economic growth of a
world located there, unless it was sufficiently rich in
resources to be a must-go trade destination.

THE JUMP DRIVE

Jumping within 100 diameters of an object imposes
DM-4 on Engineer (j-drive) checks, and jumping within
10 diameters imposes DM-8. It is still possible to make
such a jump and survive… possible, but not likely.

150

Lagrange points, where the gravity of two objects
create a net zero force, are actually subject to greater
gravitational forces than normal – the fact that two
forces cancel one another out does not mean there is
no force on a ship jumping at that point. It is extremely
dangerous to jump from a Lagrange point; an additional
DM-2 is applied to Engineer checks on top of the
normal DM for jumping within a gravity well.
The main implication of jump masking is to create areas
where starships must proceed at sublight speeds,
making them vulnerable to piracy and other hazards.
Worlds within a jump-masked area are likely to be less
economically developed than those with quicker access
to interstellar trade, although this does not mean all
jump-masked worlds are backward.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Jump-masked worlds and gas giant moons are
an ideal location for sensitive outposts, prisons
and bases. Traffic volume will be lower due to the
difficulty of getting to and from the location, and if
there is an attempt to attack or escape from the
installation the warning time will be greater. Jumpmasked areas of a star system are often largely
forgotten about – many spacers have a blind spot
towards places they cannot easily go – and so make
ideal hiding places for pirates or secret caches.

JUMP PRECIPITATION
Jump precipitation can occur if a plot is too tight and
the ship hits the 100-diameter limit before emergence,
or if the jump shadow of an unpredicted object lies
across the vessel’s path. This usually happens due
to very poor astrogation, creating a path which takes
the ship through the 100-diameter shadow of a star or
planet. It can also occur if there is an uncharted object
such as a rogue planet on the ship’s course. A vessel
would have to be very unlucky to be precipitated out of
jump by a comet or other relatively small object, but it
does happen from time-to-time.
A ship that is precipitated out of jump in this manner still
takes the normal time for a jump; it just does not go as
far. Thus a vessel attempting a six-parsec jump but is
precipitated out of jumpspace by an object encountered
1.5 parsecs from the starting point still takes the normal
time for the jump. The crew may have no warning that
this has occurred until they re-enter normal space.

JUMP VARIANCE

When a jump is plotted, the astrogator attempts
to refine all of the vastly complex calculations and
variables involved into a ‘jump plot’ that will bring the
vessel out as close to the 100-diameter limit of the
destination as possible. The ship’s engineer then
attempts to implement the plot in such a way as to
get as close as possible to the astrogator’s theoretical
model. Jump navigation is not a 100% precise science
however and there will always be some variance.
Assuming the plot from the astrogator and entry into
jumpspace set up by the engineer are both good (both
skill checks are made) then the vessel will arrive a safe
margin short of the 100-diameter emergence limit after
approximately 160 hours +/- 20 hours.

R

