T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Very Bad Jump
The INT check determines if psychological effects
are present. These typically include unease, irritability
and paranoia, but in some cases can lead to a
complete breakdown. Anyone who fails the INT check
will be irritable, nervous and generally out of sorts
for the whole duration of the jump. This manifests as
difficulty in concentrating as well as a tendency to be
on edge which often makes interactions with other
Travellers unpleasant. DM-2 applies to all checks
associated with mental or interpersonal activities. The
Traveller will be visibly on edge and may appear to
be behaving suspiciously or in a paranoid fashion.
Memory lapses, covering a few minutes to an hour or
two, are also possible.
An Effect of -6 or worse indicates the Traveller is
suffering from serious mental effects. These manifest
as acute paranoia, blackouts and hallucinations.
A Traveller in this state might harm themselves or
someone else, or take a potentially dangerous action
such as locking a hatch that the rest of the crew
need to access a critical area.
Psychological effects last throughout the jump and
for 1D days afterward.

VERY BAD JUMPS

THE JUMP DRIVE

If both variance tables indicate a Bad Jump, or the
ship misjumps, the effects are magnified. Both checks
(INT and END) must be made as above, but DM-2
applies to both. In addition, there may be other effects
on the ship and its passengers.

152

On the Very Bad Jump table, DM-4 applies if Bad Jump
was indicated by both variances tables. DM-2 applies
if the Very Bad Jump was caused by precipitation due
to hitting the 100-diameter limit. Normal misjumps are
rolled without DM. DM+2 applies if the ship jumped
whilst under significant gravitational effects (typically
this means jumping within the 100-diameter limit of
an object). DM+4 applies if the ship jumped whilst
under serious gravitational effects (typically this means
jumping from within the 10-diamerter limit of a planet or
other body). Only one modifier is used – the Referee
should use the highest applicable to the ship.

2D

Effect

2 or less

No additional effects

3–5

Jump drive requires lengthy
recalibration (taking 2D days) after
emergence

6–8

Jump drive requires minor repairs after
emergence

7–9

Jump drive requires major repairs after
emergence

10–12

Jumpspace intrusions occur, jump drive
destroyed upon emergence

13 or more

Severe jumpspace intrusions occur,
jump drive destroyed upon emergence

Jumpspace intrusions are extremely serious. The ship’s
jump field becomes unstable, allowing pockets of jump
space to enter the ship. This will destroy any matter it
encounters, such as bulkheads, wiring and Travellers.
The intrusions are usually stable, so will be limited
to a particular location for the whole of the voyage.
However, additional intrusions can occur at any time
or existing ones may spread. A ship may be slowly
consumed by the intrusions, with Travellers forced to
retreat to unbreached compartments and hope the ship
emerges into normal space before it is lost entirely.
A ship suffering jumpspace intrusions suffers damage
equal to 2D-2 as a percentage of its Hull per day.
This matter is completely destroyed, requiring a
major rebuild if the ship survives. A severe intrusion
consumes 2D+10% of the ship’s Hull per day.

MISJUMPS

A Misjump occurs if the sum of the Effect achieved by
the astrogator and engineer is 0 or less. This means
that if one fails their check but the other makes theirs
by a greater margin, the Misjump is averted, although in
this case the effects of a Bad Jump should be imposed.
If the sum of the Effects is 0 or less, a Misjump
has indeed occurred and if both checks are failed
a Serious Misjump has happened. All Misjumps
are accompanied by the effects of a Bad Jump and
Serious Misjumps are accompanied by the effects
of a Very Bad Jump. This is in addition to the effects
noted on the Misjumps table.

R

