Misjumps

JUMPSPACE CURRENTS

2D

Outcome

2 or less

The ship is lost in jumpspace or emerges
as fragments and subatomic particles.

3–4

The ship misjumps 1D x 1D parsecs
in a random direction. Its jump drive is
completely wrecked upon emergence
and the passengers and crew risk
lasting psychological effects.

5–6

The ship misjumps 2D parsecs in a
random direction. Its jump drive is
severely damaged upon emergence.

7–8

The ship misjumps 1D parsecs in a
random direction.

9–10

Duration increased or decreased
by 1D days. Jump drive requires
extensive recalibration (D3 days of
work) but no repairs.

11–12

Very rough jump, emergence is at 100
x 2D diameters from the target world.

If a Misjump occurs, roll 2D on the Misjumps table
below using the combined Effect of the Engineer and
Astrogation checks as a DM.

JUMP DRIVE CONCEPTS

The following concepts require no changes to existing
ship designs and could be implemented on a local
scale within a setting that otherwise closely resembled
the Third Imperium universe. A one-off phenomenon
could be used to move Travellers to a new location, or
investigating it might be the focus of their mission.

Some currents can be entered by any ship capable of
making a jump. Others require a more powerful drive
to enter. So, a current rated as jump-3 would require
a ship capable of making a three parsec jump.
Lesser drives would not be able to enter the current
and might be damaged in the attempt. Alternatively,
a lesser jump drive might not be able to navigate the
current properly and might be deposited back into
normal space anywhere along its length rather than
safely reaching its destination.
A current might be rated more highly in one direction
than another, perhaps being accessible at one end by
any jump capable ship but requiring a jump-3 capable
ship to return. This might have interesting applications
for the settlement of the region at the far end.

WEIRDER JUMPSPACE

In the Third Imperium universe, jumpspace is a
mysterious and somewhat scary place but there
are few jumpspace phenomena. Some do exist,
such as regions where misjumps are more common
than usual, but in general jumpspace is a reliable
mechanism for getting from one place to another. It is
possible to add in additional ‘jumpspace weirdness’
without harming the universe too much.
One option is to assume that there is only one
jumpspace ‘place’ and that everything that has ever
entered jumpspace is there, all at the same time. A
properly working jump drive keeps ‘everything else’
out of a ship but one that is poorly maintained or has
suffered damage might not perform so well. This might
account for reports of mysterious signals received
whilst in jump, or wild tales of ships emerging with
what appeared to be collision damage.

THE JUMP DRIVE

Introducing a totally different interstellar drive system
to a Traveller campaign might impose unexpected
changes on the universe, or might make using
existing starship designs impossible. This might well
be desirable if a campaign is being built from the
ground up but it is not always possible to foresee the
implications of large-scale changes. Rather than doing
away with the concept of the jump drive and replacing
it with something else, it may be desirable to impose
some slightly different characteristics on the universe
or the performance of the drive, opening new options
without having to redesign every starship.

A current is a jumpspace phenomenon which typically
links two specific points in normal space. A jumpspace
current allows a ship to rapidly transit between its
entry and exit points using a normal jump, so a oneweek jump made at the entry point to a current can
allow a ship to travel hundreds or even thousands of
parsecs. However, this can damage the ship’s drive
or even destroy it if it is not properly calibrated for that
particular current. Some currents are one-way; others
can be transited in both directions, and the capability
of the jump drive required to make the transit can vary
depending on direction. Some currents have multiple
entry and exit points, and some exit points may require
a higher jump number to access than others.

153

