T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

VARIABLE JUMP DURATION
More extreme examples of this phenomenon
might allow access to some ‘other place’ by way of
jumpspace. This might be a whole other universe,
either a pocket universe or a different version of our
own. It might be a realm of madness, or a misjump
might bring the Travellers out of jump in a subtly
different version of their own universe. What has
happened might not be apparent until the Travellers
see news reports from a war they have never heard of,
from a capital that is not the one they know.
A misjump might also cause the ship to emerge in the
distant past or far future, or in a distant region. Getting
home might be the focus of the campaign thereafter, or
preventing some event the Travellers know about from
their history books. This concept might also be used as
a one-off to move a campaign to a different setting.

THE JUMP DRIVE

An alternative might be to have objects and even
people transferring between ships in jump if their jump
fields have exactly the right resonance. This might
be a one-off scenario dealing with an entity or person
trapped in jumpspace for centuries and finally able
to board a ship by walking out of a wall, or it might
be commonplace enough that crews have to defend
their ship from intrusions by the Things That Live In
Jumpspace. This can be overdone, of course, but it
does lend a different flavour to the universe.

154

Most spacers in the Third Imperium universe work to a
rule of thumb that a jump takes about one week, with a
variation of up to 20 or so hours being fairly common.
Many will quote ‘more than a day and it’s not okay’,
meaning that a variation of more than 24 hours long or
short generally indicates a misjump.
Under this rule, the time for a jump and its possible
variation can actually vary somewhat depending on
conditions in the local region of space. This creates
areas which are less accessible due to longer
transit times and others where jump is much faster.
These tend to have greater economic activity and
thus more developed worlds due to the rapidity of
interstellar commerce.
The baseline is still an average of 160 hours with a
variance of plus or minus 20 hours.
In a High Variance region, the length of a jump can be
plus or minus up to 60 hours, with variance of up to 120
hours possible in an Extreme Variance region.
In a Slow Jump region the base time for a jump may
be 200–300 hours (9–12 days) with Very Slow Jump
regions in the 400–600 hour (16–25 day) range.
A Fast Jump region typically has a baseline jump
time of 100–120 hours (4–5 days), with Very Fast
Jump regions requiring as little as 40–80 hours
(1.6–3.3 days) per jump.

R

