Combinations are possible, such as fast jump/high
variance regions.
Jump variance is not well understood. Some
scientists believe that sparsity of stars (and therefore
lesser gravitational influence) can somehow affect
the time taken to make a jump. This does not
explain variation in areas with dense stellar clusters
however. Some areas of dense star systems have
shorter average jump duration than is typical and
some sparse regions require longer.

An instant jump follows all the rules for normal jump
drives in terms of fuel requirements and distance that
can be covered. This does impose some limits on
travel, since ships still need to refuel, but explorers
will be able to push much farther out before fatigue
and a need for repairs to the ship require a return
to base. Thus an instant-jump universe will tend to
feature societies spread over a greater area – why
settle a hellhole of a world when there are garden
planets within a few days’ travel – with underdeveloped
backwaters in between the major worlds.

ALTERNATE JUMP OPERATIONS

REAL-SPACE TRANSIT

Some or all of these options could be applied to the
entire setting, or perhaps the technology might be
restricted to one alien race or a single prototype built
by a crazed genius. If so, obtaining one of these
capabilities might be the goal of an entire campaign – or
it may enable the Travellers to do things others cannot
and therefore be a driving force in the universe.

High-jump ships offer faster travel, which has political
and economic implications. Bulk goods will be moved
aboard slow jump-1 freighters whilst faster ships carry
messages and priority cargo. It is possible to build a
low-jump ship with a great deal of fuel, making gaps
between mains and clusters less of a barrier. A ship still
needs fuel equal to 10% of its tonnage per parsec but
a jump-1 ship with 50% of its hull devoted to fuel tanks
can make five-parsec voyages – albeit slowly.

Changing how the jump drive works can alter the
setting for a Traveller universe without requiring new
starships to be designed with different technology.
The classic Traveller starship designs can be used
unchanged in a universe where their performance
is altered but the size and fuel consumption of their
components is not.

INSTANT JUMP

This allows an interstellar society to spread out
more evenly, rather than being heavily constrained
by astrography. Absolute distance becomes more
important than the presence of easily navigated mains
and clusters. For a band of Travellers with such a ship
in an otherwise standard universe, the implications
are considerable. They will be able to go places others
cannot reach without extensive prepositioning of fuel
or tankers and bypass choke points where enemies
are expecting to encounter them. The Travellers
will have a freedom of movement denied to others,
making them the only ones able to carry out some
missions or giving them a chance to avoid a response
after some nefarious deed.

THE JUMP DRIVE

Instant jump technology is a universe-changer and
should be implemented with caution. In the Third
Imperium universe the speed of communication
is limited by the rate at which ships could jump
from one star system to another with information.
Reducing jump time to zero, or to a short interval,
allows messages to be sent as fast as ships can
refuel and re-provision – faster if a ‘pony express’ of
ready couriers is maintained. This technology also
has strategic implications. Transferring a fleet from
one region to another could take months using the
standard jump drive. If it can be done in days instead,
the strategic picture will be altered.

Under this variant, the jump drive does not take a ship
entirely out of the ‘real’ universe. Instead, a ship can
proceed at a rate of one parsec per week per jump
number (so a jump-2 ship can cover two parsecs in
a week, or one parsec in 3.5 days) and can receive
communications or even change course during its
interstellar voyage. If fuel requirements are kept the
same then standard designs can be used unchanged.

155

