T

RAVELLING
IN NORMAL SPACE

Getting from place-to-place is an integral part of
Traveller – as its very name suggests. Sometimes
the journey is a means to get to an adventure or
interesting incident; on other occasions the journey is
an adventure in its own right.
Traveller assumes that spacecraft use a reactionless
drive which does not directly require fuel. If the ship
has a working manoeuvre drive and its power plant
is functional (which does require fuel) then the ship
has thrust and can manoeuvre. Drives that require
reaction mass would require vastly more fuel than
standard manoeuvre drives. This would greatly limit
their range unless the ship spent most of its voyage
between planets coasting. It also makes navigation a
much more complex task.
The transit times given in the Traveller Core Rulebook,
and the formulae they are derived from (which also
appear in earlier versions of the game) assume a
vessel accelerating to the midway point of a journey
and then decelerating the rest of the way. This
requires constant thrust.
It is not, however, possible to exceed the speed of
light by these means. Lightspeed is bypassed by using
jumpspace to transit between points but this does not
require actually reaching the velocity of light either. In
fact, a ship can jump at any speed or on any heading
– it is not necessary to be aimed at the target in the
physical universe, only to set up the jump correctly.
A ship trying to reach lightspeed using the standard
manoeuvre drive will encounter time dilation effects
and an exponential increase in the amount of energy
required to increase speed. Once speed reaches a
significant fraction of the speed of light, it will take
much longer (i.e. the same thrust over a much greater
period of time) to increase speed further. Even with
a reactionless drive, it would take infinite time to
reach lightspeed. Indeed, accelerating beyond a
certain speed would be a death sentence for the
crew; if insufficient fuel remained to slow down again
they would be trapped aboard their hurtling starship,
unable to leave since any lifeboats launched would be
travelling at the same speed as the parent vessel.

156

WHERE DO WE WANT TO GO?

Spacecraft, starships, satellites and stations tend to be
in predictable places within a star system. It is possible
to run into a research ship out in the distant moons
of a gas giant, or a pirate vessel hiding somewhere
unexpected, but for the most part political, economic
and military factors all conspire to keep ships close to
inhabited worlds or transit corridors between them.
Orbital space around an inhabited world is the most
crowded region of a star system. If a world has no
atmosphere, it is theoretically possible to orbit at very
low altitude so long as the craft is going fast enough.
A stable orbit balances forces against a craft or object;
gravity pulls it towards the body but its velocity keeps it
in orbit. This can be thought of as a fast-moving object
falling in a curve that ends over the horizon.
An orbit can be circular or highly elliptical, so long
as the dynamic balance of forces is such that the
object neither crashes into the planet or escapes
into deep space. A craft with functioning drives can
apply course corrections at need and can force itself
to remain in a powered orbit that would not be stable
once the engines were cut off. More commonly,
craft will set up an orbit that will remain stable for a
reasonable period. This is partially for safety in case
of a drive malfunction and partly because orbital traffic
controllers do not like ships whizzing about all over
the place in their crowded area of operations.
Objects in low orbit will experience drag from the upper
layers of the atmosphere if the world has one, but this
is not large. Unpowered satellites can remain in low
Earth orbit for many years providing they are above an
altitude of about 400 kilometres. Low orbit for Earth is
considered to extend out to about 2,000 kilometres; in
the Traveller universe low orbit is typically defined as
within around 1,000–2,500 kilometres of the planetary
surface. Most highports and other space installations
are located around the upper limit of low orbit and a
common spacer’s rule of thumb is ‘anything lower than
the highport is in low orbit’.

