Objects in low orbit cannot retain direct line-ofsight contact to any fixed point on the ground. This
is not generally a problem if there are satellites or
other installations to bounce signals off. Most world
governments consider their low orbit zone to be
strategically important and those that can will usually
maintain some form of low-orbit defence capability.
This might be ground-based missiles or perhaps
a few fighters based at the highport in the case
of a minor world; major worlds tend to have much
stronger defences. Low-orbit traffic is also closely
regulated in most cases.
An object whose orbital period matches the rotation
of the planet below can maintain a geosynchronous
orbit, i.e. it is constantly over the same spot on the
ground, providing it follow’s the world’s equator.
This is useful for communications satellites but also
serves as a delineation point between medium and
high orbit. In systems where traffic is highly regulated
it is common for ships to request permission before
transiting between the High Orbit Zone (HOZ), Medium
Orbit Zone (MOZ) and Low Orbit Zone (LOZ). These
designations are arbitrary but useful.
Altitude for a geosynchronous orbit depends on the
planet’s speed of rotation and may be a theoretical
point for worlds with very slow or no rotation. For Earth
this point is an altitude of about 35,000 kilometres.
Beyond this, the HOZ is generally considered to extend
out to 10 times the equatorial diameter of the world.
This ‘10 diameters’ rule is another arbitrary but useful
distinction; most worlds consider anything within 10
diameters as being in their sovereign territory.

MOVEMENT AND NAVIGATION

Movement in normal space (i.e. not in jumpspace) is
governed by a set of well-understood physical laws.
An object that is moving will continue to move with the
same velocity (speed and direction) unless something
makes it change. Likewise, an object not moving
stays at rest unless something makes it start moving.
However, the object is acted upon by the gravitational
attraction of other objects. A small asteroid a long way
away exerts so little force that it can be discounted but
planets – especially gas giants – and the system’s stars
exert a more noticeable force.
Trying to go from one place to another in a straight line
is impossible in such an environment, as well as being
undesirable. Every object in a star system is in motion;
even the stars. It is normal when navigating to take
one of the system’s stars as a frame of reference and
ignore its motion – the movement of the system as a
whole relative to the rest of the galaxy is not significant
when delivering a cargo of supplies to a mining outpost
on one of the outer planets.
However, the orbital paths of various bodies in the
system cause their positions to change relative to one
another. Moving between any two of them requires
calculating where the target is going to be at time of
arrival and determining a path to get there efficiently.
It is possible to save some time by using the gravity
and motion of objects in the system to create a highly
efficient trajectory. Likewise, course changes for a new
destination are usually very inefficient – a ship close
to the new destination may actually take longer to turn
around and get there than one starting farther away but
calculating an efficient course from the outset.

TRAVELLING IN NOMAL SPACE

Almost all local activity takes place within 10
diameters. Stations and satellites are typically located
in low orbit, so most traffic is in that region with a
few vessels having business further out. Any craft
that goes beyond the 10 diameter limit is considered
to have left orbital space and is probably on its way
somewhere else. That might be another body in
the same system or the vessel might be making an
interstellar voyage. Ships enter and emerge from jump
beyond the 100-diameter limit, unless something has
gone wrong, so most vessels must transit in or out of
orbital space in order to make a jump.

For Earth, the safe 100-diameter jump limit is roughly
1,275,000 kilometres, a bit over three times the
distance from the surface to the Moon. Transit in and
out from a safe jump distance can be quite lengthy
and in a busy system there might be numerous ships
headed in and out at once. However, there is no single
‘jump point’ in a system so these ships will be spread
out over a huge volume of space. Other vessels are
just distant transponder dots on a navigational plot and
space can be quite lonely even this close to a planet.
Vessels making a long transit out to other worlds in the
same system may be very far from any assistance if
something goes wrong.

157

