T

When a spacecraft applies thrust, its existing
vector (the direction and speed it is going) changes
gradually according to how much thrust is available
and the direction it is applied. Massive objects
require a lot more thrust to change speed or direction
but even a small amount will have an effect. This
can be useful, for example it is possible to launch a
probe in the direction of a distant planet and shut off
its drive; it will coast until it gets there. This can also
be dangerous – a vessel that is tumbling as a result
of an accident will keep tumbling forever unless
something stops it, and a ship without power close to
a star will fall into it unless somehow stopped.
Gravity has an effect on vessels and objects,
pulling them towards the source of the gravitational
field. If the correct speed and distance from a
planet or star can be determined, a vessel or other
object can be put into orbit; gravitational pull draws
it into a curved path around the gravity source but
is not enough to drag it down.

TRAVELLING IN NOMAL SPACE

Note that most orbits are not circular. An ellipse
is more common and many orbits are imperfect,
requiring occasional corrections. An object in an
imperfect orbit may eventually escape and head
off into deep space or fall to the planet below, but
this does not happen quickly. A ship that has lost
power may remain in orbit for weeks, months… even
centuries. Only the most unstable orbits, or those that
brush the upper atmosphere, will decay quickly. For a
ship with plenty of fuel little of this matters; corrections
can be made as needed.

158

In deep space, away from gravitational fields, things are
simpler but still not easy. In an atmosphere, an aircraft
can bank and turn quickly, while ground vehicles use
friction with the ground to effect a similar fast turn. For a
space vessel, changing direction is a slower process.
Most space vessels have a main drive which applies
thrust in one direction, and smaller manoeuvring units
to point the ship. Changing direction is a matter of
realigning the ship and then using the main drive to
thrust in the chosen direction. However, the ship retains
momentum in whatever direction it was going and must
cancel this or include it in the new course calculations.
The former solution is fine for ships with fuel and
time to waste. When a direction change is wanted
the vessel flips 180° and thrusts until it has come to
a stop, then accelerates in the new direction. This is

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

crazily inefficient, so a good navigator calculates a
course well ahead of time to get the ship going where
needed with a minimum of thrust. This usually means
changing direction early and using local gravity fields.
A well-planned course saves a lot of fuel and time
compared to a seat-of-the pants approach, and combat
manoeuvres are even more fuel-intensive.
Note that it is possible for two objects or ships to be ‘at
rest relative to one another’ despite both moving. This
simply means they have the same course and speed.
Even if they are screaming towards a third object at
enormous speed, each would appear stationary to the
other – this makes docking much simpler!

ORBITAL MECHANICS AND
INTERPLANETARY TRAVEL
MADE SIMPLE
Transit times between bodies in a planetary system
can be important to an adventure. There are two
ways of dealing with this. One involves a great deal
of mathematics to model the relative motion of bodies
and the trajectory of a ship travelling between them.
The other is to use ballpark figures and adjust them as
necessary to fit the needs of the adventure.
For example, the average distance between Earth
and the Sun is 1 Astronomical unit (AU), or about
150,000,000 kilometres. Mars orbits an average
of 1.52 AU, or about 228,000,000 kilometres, from
the Sun. This does not mean that Earth and Mars
are 78,000,000 kilometres apart. Since both orbit
at different speeds, there are times when they are
relatively close together (in astronomical terms) and
others when they are on opposite sides of the sun.
The actual distance can thus vary between around
47,000,000 kilometres and 401,000,000 kilometres,
averaging about 225,000,000 kilometres.
Getting from Earth to Mars is not a simple matter of
crossing the distance between the two in a straight line.
In fact a space vessel needs to transit from where Earth
is now to where Mars is going to be when it arrives.
This can be further than the distance between the start
and end point, especially if the vessel needs to make
a course change along the way. Even ignoring orbital
eccentricity and other factors that could complicate
this calculation still further, a hard, number-crunching
approach will slow down a game unnecessarily.

R

