MINE WARFARE
Laying contact-detonated mines in open space is more
or less pointless. The chances of a ship encountering
one is infinitesimally small unless the minefield is so
incredibly dense that it would be detected a long way
off and would in any case be prohibitively expensive.
However, the idea of laying passive booby-traps to
deter ships from using an area of space remains an
attractive one. A minefield can act as a deterrent or
tripwire, indicating that a vessel is present without the
need to keep a patrol ship on station. Minefields are
useful in defending orbital space, where there is more
chance of a ship encountering one, although contactdetonated mines are still of questionable value.

TYPES OF MINE

The typical space mine is of a CAPTOR (CAPtive
TORpedo) type and consists of a containerlauncher with basic sensors, which carries one
or more missiles or torpedoes. Mines can be set
to automatically launch weapons at any vessel in
proximity which does not transmit the correct codes,
or to make a challenge and/or warning before
firing. They can also, in many cases, be directly
commanded from a station or mine warfare vessel.
CAPTOR mines typically carry torpedoes rather than
missiles, as they are intended for local area defence
and denial rather than long-range combat. Standard
designs typically carry two or four torpedoes. Mines
are generally considered disposable and likely to be
destroyed once detected, so reloads are a waste
of resources. Once its munitions are expended, a

160

container-launcher can be recovered and re-armed if it
survives but since the main expense is its weapons, the
loss of the launcher is not significant.
Explosive mines are of little use in orbital or free
space but can be effective in an atmosphere. It is
not feasible to mine the atmosphere of terrestrial
planets because of the extreme low orbital mechanics
required but gas giants can be cheaply mined in
this manner. A suitably large detonation – often a
small nuclear device – can cause a shock wave that
will endanger nearby ships or cause a control loss.
However, the liberal seeding of nuclear munitions
across nearby space is generally frowned upon,
not least because there are those who are willing to
disarm and steal the mines for sale and use elsewhere.
CAPTOR mines have an attack range of Medium (out
to 10,000 kilometres) but are typically set to launch at
ranges of under 1,000 kilometres. This gives the target
virtually no chance to evade or respond other than by
point-defence fire against the salvo.
‘Breaking the kill chain’ is a common tactic for dealing
with minefields, destroying the mines before they can
fire. However, mines are a very small target if engaged
with starship weaponry, imposing DM-6 on attacks.
Typically, the mine will expend all its torpedoes in one
attack, making it pointless to fire at it after launch.
A salvo of torpedoes uses the usual missile rules.
Mine-launched torpedoes are Smart weapons and deal
6D of damage.

