Mine

Cost (MCr)

Tonnage

TL

Hull Points

CAPTOR Mine, Small (2 torpedoes)

0.5

1

10

2

CAPTOR Mine, Medium (4 torpedoes)

0.8

2

10

3

CAPTOR Mine, Large (6 torpedoes)

1.1

2.5

10

5

Nuclear Proximity Mine*

0.25

1

7

4

Nuclear Laser Mine*

0.75

1.5

8

4

* Although nuclear mines are relatively cheap, they are difficult to obtain and highly illegal for civilians, and subject to many
treaties for military use.

CAPTOR MINES

A CAPTOR mine is armed with two, four or six torpedoes
in disposable container-launchers, plus a basic
electronics pack that allows it to detect, track and launch
at targets within 10,000 kilometres (Medium range).
Mine-launched torpedoes are subject to the usual DM-2
to attack ships under 2,000 tons, except when launching
from within 1,000 kilometres. At this short range the
torpedo can be fired directly at the target’s projected
position, and with a short transit time to target there is
little chance for manoeuvres to throw off the mine’s aim.
The tonnage of the mine is determined by its missile
capacity. If a mine is to be reloaded, the cost is Cr50000
per torpedo plus the cost of the weapons themselves
(Cr150000 each a standard torpedo).

NUCLEAR PROXIMITY MINES

Within an atmosphere such as that of a gas giant, a
nuclear detonation will also produce a pressure wave
which can damage a starship. Damage is 6D within 100
kilometres, dropping by 1D per 100 kilometres thereafter.

NUCLEAR LASER MINES
Nuclear laser mines use a small nuclear warhead to
‘pump’ a one-shot x-ray laser. Effective range is short
but the weapon is powerful compared to standard
lasers and has greater reach than a simple proximity
bomb. The laser suffers DM-2 to hit a moving target
beyond 10,000 kilometres and has a maximum range
of 25,000 kilometres. These ranges are reduced by ¾
if deployed in an atmosphere. Radiation effects (and
blast effect if used in a gas giant atmosphere) are the
same as nuclear proximity mines. Damage from a
nuclear-powered laser is 5D.

MINEFIELD DENSITY
Torpedo-armed mines have a large danger radius but
at orbital distances there is still a great deal of space
to cover. The density of a minefield determines the
chance of encountering a mine. A vessel that spends
an extended time in the minefield much check every 1D
hours to see if a mine is encountered.
The Minefield Density table indicates the number of
mines required per planetary Size digit to create a
field of a given density. Small gas giants are treated
as being Size 50; large gas giants are Size 150 for the
purposes of minelaying operations.
The Pilot check to avoid encountering a mine is
subject to DM+2 if the Travellers’ vessel is under 100
tons displacement. There is no modifier for a ship
above this but below 1,000 tons in displacement.
The check is made at DM-2 if the Travellers’ ship is
1,000–10,000 tons in displacement and DM-4 for
ships above 10,000 tons.

Mine Warfare

A nuclear proximity mine is a one-shot weapon
armed with a small nuclear warhead and a very basic
electronics package. Such weapons are prohibited
in most areas, other than for military use. They are
useful mainly where there is an atmosphere to create
a blast effect. A nuclear detonation will create an
electromagnetic pulse (EMP) which will disrupt sensor
and electronic systems; the round after a nuclear
detonation occurs, all checks involving electronic
systems are made with DM-6 by the target ship unless
it has hardened computer systems. The DM increases
(goes up) by +2 each round thereafter. A nuclear
detonation can white out sensors and cause a temporary
control loss which can be lethal in a dangerous
environment such as a gas giant’s atmosphere.

Weapons of this sort are extremely crude and of limited
use but the threat of their presence can be enough to
make vessels avoid a gas giant for refuelling.

161

