T

Field Density

Difficulty

Mines Per Size
Digit Required

Minimal

Simple (2+)

1

Thin

Easy (4+)

2

Light

Routine (6+)

3

Standard

Average (8+)

5

Dense

Difficult (10+)

10

Extremely Dense

Very Difficult (12+)

15

This check assumes the Travellers are unaware of the
minefield. Once the field is detected or a mine has been
encountered, the Travellers may attempt to evade the
minefield. If they simply go about their business, new
checks to encounter mines are made every 1D hours.
For example, a 20,000 ton naval tanker enters
the atmosphere of a large gas giant, intending
to skim fuel. There are 2,000 mines in the upper
atmosphere. Taking the gas giant’s Size as 150,
this means that 1,500 would be needed for a dense
field and 2,250 for an extremely dense one. Thus
the field is dense, requiring a Difficult check to
avoid accidentally encountering a mine. The check
is made at DM-4 for the size of the ship. Once the
first attack has taken place, the Travellers can begin
trying to find a way through the field.

MINES AND MINELAYING
EQUIPMENT

Mine Warfare

A

V

E

L

L

E

MINELAYER BAY

Minefield Density

162

R

Mines can be manually laid by pushing them out
of an open cargo bay into the area where they
are wanted, then remotely controlling the mine to
orient itself. This is a slow process, requiring 2Dx10
minutes per mine to be laid. However, specialist
minelaying equipment is available.

A minelayer bay can be fitted as a small bay weapon,
requiring one hardpoint, one crewmember and 50
tons. A minelayer bay can deploy mines of any size
at the rate of one every 2D minutes. A minelayer
bay costs MCr1.5 but does not contain any mines.
Additional tonnage must be allocated to carry mines,
at a cost of Cr10000 per ton. Thus a ship with 20 tons
of mine stowage can carry 20 small CAPTOR mines
or eight large ones, at a cost of Cr200000.

DETECTING AND EVADING
MINEFIELDS

Some minefields are surrounded by warning beacons,
in which case Travellers will be made aware of the
mines before they approach. Of course, the warning
may be false or the beacons disabled for some reason.
If there is no warning, a vessel can try to detect the
minefield early enough to avoid attack.
Detecting a minefield requires an Average (8+)
Electronics (sensors) check, increasing to Difficult
(10+) if the field is located within a gas giant’s upper
atmosphere. This check indicates the presence of
something that looks like a minefield but does not
pinpoint the position of any given mine. To map a
minefield or find a way through without coming within
range of a mine requires a Difficult (10+) Electronics
(sensors) check, increasing to Very Difficult (12+)
within a gas giant’s atmosphere. Alternatively, a ship
can try to inch through the field attempting to detect
individual mines as it goes and move around them.
This is a very slow process, with each mine requiring
2Dx5 minutes to detect and bypass. 1D mines will
typically be encountered in the course of slipping
through a minefield. Detecting each one early
enough to avoid attack requires an Average (8+)
Electronics (sensors) check, increased to Difficult
(10+) within a gas giant’s atmosphere.
If any mine detects the Travellers’ ship, it will attack
with one or more torpedoes or detonate if it is a nuclear
proximity mine. The whole minefield will then go to
high alert, imposing DM-2 on all attempts to detect and
avoid mines. In some cases, the mines of a field may
communicate with one another and set up a massed
salvo sufficient to overwhelm the defences of a target
vessel and annihilate it. This will be coordinated by a
burst transmission which may be detected.

R

