GAS GIANT OPERATIONS
Skimming fuel from a gas giant is a common practice,
requiring a rapid transit through the upper atmosphere
to force gases into a scoop. These are then processed
to extract hydrogen which is compressed until
sufficient liquid hydrogen is available for use as fuel.
Skimming is a common means of refuelling a fleet
before advancing to attack a target world – going into
action with dry tanks means the fleet cannot escape
by jumping away from a bad situation.
Not surprisingly, many powers seek to deny the
enemy this capability, and on a smaller scale patrol
vessels are often stationed at a gas giant to catch
pirates or other criminals trying to avoid the starports.
This can result in a dangerous game of cat-andmouse in a gas giant’s atmosphere.
A gas giant’s atmosphere can be considered to
consist of layers of increasing density. These are
usually separated by temperature inversions which
can interfere with the operation of a ship’s sensors.
The deeper layers of a gas giant’s atmosphere
are inaccessible to starships as the pressure and
turbulence encountered there would destroy any
known ship. However, the upper layers can be used
for skimming or to conceal a ship.
As a general rule, the deeper in the atmosphere a
ship goes, the harder it is to detect and the faster
it can fill its tanks with liquid hydrogen. However,
turbulence is greater at these depths, imposing
difficulties in controlling the ship.
1 – Wisp: The outer layer of a gas giant’s atmosphere
is too thin to skim for fuel or fully conceal a ship but
does impose some drag on a vessel or object in orbit.
Powered course corrections from time-to-time will be
necessary to prevent an orbit from decaying, although
this is likely to take days or even weeks to become a
serious problem. A ship that loses power in the Wisp
zone has plenty of time to repair its systems.

2 – Extreme Shallow: The upper layers of the
atmosphere are not subject to much turbulence. It
is possible to skim fuel in the extreme shallows but
it will take 10 times as long as in the Deep zone.
Power loss will result in orbital decay in 8D hours.
There are no serious turbulence effects at this level
and no penalty to Pilot checks.
3 – Shallow: The Shallows are reasonably safe to
operate in and allow skimming for fuel at half the
normal rate. Orbital decay will occur in 2D hours if
power is lost. All Pilot checks are made with DM-1
in the Shallows.
4 – Deep: Fuel skimming and commercial exploitation
such as petrochemical harvesting is normally done in
the Deep zone. Skimming is at the normal rate and
conditions tend to be sufficiently turbulent that Pilot
checks are made with at DM-2. A vessel that loses
power in the Deeps will start to fall immediately, hitting
the top of the Extreme Deep layer in 2D minutes.
5 – Extreme Deep: Few vessels venture into the
Extreme Deeps other than specially built research
craft and warships optimised for hiding in a gas giant’s
atmosphere. Turbulent conditions impose DM-3 on all
Pilot checks. A vessel without power in the Extreme
Deeps will be tossed about by incredible winds,
suffering 2D damage every round. It will fall to the top
of the Depths in 2D minutes.
6 – Depths: Very few vessels have returned from the
Depths of any gas giant world. Any ship at this depth,
other than those specially constructed to survive there,
suffers 2D damage each round, increasing to 6D if the
ship is unstable due to power loss. A vessel will enter
the Abyssal Depths in 2D minutes if falling without
power. All Pilot checks are made at DM-4 in the Depths.

163

