T

7 – Abyssal Depths: The technology required to build
a ship capable of operating in the Abyssal Depths
is beyond most starfaring species. The incredible
pressures and turbulence inflict 4D damage per round
on any vessel venturing there. The pressure is so
great at this depth that pools of liquid hydrogen can be
encountered near the bottom. Some gas giants have
a rocky or metallic core; others simply a high-pressure
world-ocean of hydrogen. A ship that hits the bottom of
a gas giant’s atmosphere will be destroyed quickly. All
Pilot checks are made at DM-5 in the Abyssal depths
and sensor systems will not function.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS
All gas giants have a turbulent atmosphere. One that is
unusually active will impose an additional DM-2 on all
Pilot checks made in the atmosphere. Particularly violent
giants impose DM-4. These worlds are rarely skimmed
for fuel, except by the most desperate of crews.

CROSSING THE LAYERS

Gas giant Operations

The layers of a gas giant’s atmosphere may expand
and contract depending on local temperature
conditions, causing the boundaries to move
considerably. It is possible for a layer boundary to
move rapidly up or down, causing it to impinge upon
a starship maintaining a constant altitude. However,
more commonly a ship will deliberately cross from one
layer to another to avoid detection or reach a suitable
altitude for fuel skimming.

164

Crossing from one layer to another, up or down,
requires an Average (8+) Pilot check with the largest
negative DM for depth applied. Success indicates the
ship has successfully crossed to the new layer without
much more than some buffeting. In the event of failure,
the ship fails to cross the layer and is bounced back
with considerable violence. A second Pilot check,
this one at Difficult (10+) difficulty and subject to the
DM for the layer the ship is currently in, is required to
avoid damage. If this check is failed, the ship suffers a
number of dice in damage equal to the number of the
layer it is trying to enter. So, a ship trying to enter the
Deep layer and failing, suffers 4D Hull damage unless
the pilot can succeed the second check.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

FUEL SKIMMING

Fuel skimming takes a number of ‘passes’, during
which the ship opens its scoops and forces gas into
them by moving fast through the atmosphere – or by
simply pointing into the wind. A ship can skim fuel equal
to 1% of its hull tonnage per pass, with a pass typically
requiring 2D minutes. Thus, a vessel wanting to obtain
20% of its hull tonnage in fuel in the Deep layer will
need 20 passes averaging about seven minutes each,
for a total of 140 minutes. Skimming would take twice
as long in the Shallow layer but would also be safer.

SENSORS AND COMBAT
Sensors and beam weapons are attenuated in the thick
atmosphere of a gas giant. All checks to detect another
vessel are subject to DM-2 for each layer the ships are
apart. Thus, a system defence boat patrolling the Wisp
layer suffers DM-4 to spot a pirate ship hiding from
it in the Shallow layer. It is common to seed sensor
drones in gas giant atmospheres to offset this problem.
Drones are very short-lived in the Deep zone, so tend
to be positioned in the higher areas. Ships with access
to drones can be considered to be sensing from the
Wisp, Extreme Shallows or Shallow areas; whichever is
most beneficial. A ship outside the Wisp zone, with no
access to sensor drones, would suffer DM-2 for each
layer down the target was hiding.
Energy-based weapon ranges are halved for every
layer the firing ship is down and each dice of damage is
reduced by one point per layer the ship is down. Thus,
a vessel firing a pulse laser in the Deep zone does only
2D-8 damage if it hits.
Missiles and torpedoes do full damage in a gas
giant atmosphere but may be destroyed if they cross
between layers. Weapons designed for use in these
conditions (e.g. torpedoes used in mines seeded in
an atmosphere) can safely cross between layers on a
straight Routine (6+) check. For standard missiles and
torpedoes, this is an Average (8+) check. However, this
does not apply when shooting into the Wisp, Extreme
Shallows, or Shallow layers; ships in these areas can
be attacked normally by missiles fired from outside the
atmosphere, making the positioning of other vessels in
a high guard position extremely important.

R

