T

RANSPONDERS,
REGISTRY AND MORTGAGES

The device known as a transponder aboard a
starship is more than an automatic identification-andcommunication system. It is a complex security system
which contains (supposedly) tamper-proof information
on the ship’s status, registry and ownership.
The transponder itself is intended to automatically
identify the ship whenever it is ‘pinged’ or
communications are made. The transponder
automatically appends the ship’s name, port of registry
and class to every communication, recorded along with
the communication itself by the receiving vessel.
Transponders can operate in one of four modes,
although not all are available to some users.
Active: The transponder sends out a ‘ping’ every few
seconds, containing the ship’s basic data. This mode is
used in safe areas where there is no need for a vessel
to avoid detection. An active transponder advertises the
ship’s presence to other vessels, enabling early course
changes to avoid the risk of collision.
Passive: The transponder does not ‘ping’ but will
respond if pinged by another transponder. This mode
is used where shipowners would prefer to remain
inconspicuous as much as possible, such as in
frontier systems where piracy is common. Starports
typically maintain an active ping, which reveals
vessels as they approach.
IFF: Identification-Friend-or-Foe mode is used only
by naval and paramilitary vessels. The transponder
will not respond unless it receives a ping from a
transponder with the correct challenge codes.
Responses are low-power and directional, reducing
the chance of detection. Although IFF does serve to
tell friendly craft from potential hostiles, it is primarily
used for squadron station-keeping and small craft
operations, allowing members of the same force
to track one another and maintain station without
alerting all ships in the area to their presence. An IFFmode transponder will not respond automatically to
a challenge from another system that does not have
the right codes but will alert the operator and give the
opportunity to authorise a response.

Covert: It is not generally possible to turn off a
transponder, at least not without modifying it somehow.
However, it is possible to activate ‘covert’ mode. This
prevents the transponder from responding when pinged
and is used in an emergency to hide from hostiles.
Any activation of covert mode is automatically entered
into the ship’s logs and will have to be explained if the
log is examined. Most civilian ships have an override
code built into their transponder which will respond
to an interrogative pulse from a suitably equipped
vessel even in covert mode. Naval vessels have this
capability, although its effectiveness depends on which
codes have been supplied. When the override codes
for shipping in the region fall into the wrong hands, they
have to be changed as no merchant vessel can hide
from a pirate who can simply ask their ship where it is.
The transponder will also respond to an interrogative
pulse from a suitably equipped vessel with a short
version of the ship’s logs. This is simply a set of
validation codes indicating when a ship docked at a
starport and when it left, and an indication of when it
jumped and re-entered normal space (but not where).
The ‘short log’ as it is known is automatically updated
with port codes at Class A and B ports. Most Class C
and some Class D ports also supply a code. A ship
with a few gaps in its port entry and exit code log will
not be seen as suspicious but the short log can be
used by patrol vessels to identify ships that might
reward a boarding and search.
One other piece of data carried by a ship’s
transponder is its mortgage status. It can be difficult
for a ship working the backwaters to make mortgage
payments on time, so this function is handled by the
transponder’s dedicated computer system. Payments
can be made electronically to an internal escrow
account, a one-way transaction; the mortgage payment
fund cannot normally be accessed by the crew. When
the ship enters a port tied into the interstellar banking
system, its transponder system delivers the payment
which is then forwarded to the recipient. Most Class A
and B ports have this capability.

165

