T

If no payment is received for a long time, the mortgage
holder might declare the ship suspect and put out an
alert. However, it may simply be that the mortgage
payment is sitting in the internal escrow account waiting
for suitable planetfall. If this is the case, the ship’s
transponder will indicate that payments are available
and patrol vessels will not flag the vessel as ‘skipped’.
A skip alert will attract the attention of skip tracers and
other official or freelance investigators, who can be a
nuisance for the crew. The alert can be cancelled at a
suitably equipped starport, even if the payment will take
time to reach the mortgage holder. Delays of this sort
can be exploited at both ends but for the most part the
system works well enough.

TRANSPONDER MODIFICATIONS

Transponders, Registry and Mortgages

The transponder can be modified, although this is
illegal. The most common modifications are to remove
a mortgage default flag from the code or disable the
automatic response system. The latter allows the ship
to run completely ‘dark’ and prevents any ship from
overriding the transponder. It is normally used by
smugglers and pirates, and being caught with a dead
transponder will require a lot of explaining.

166

Disabling the transponder can be done without
reprogramming it, although removing all the tie-ins
and connections to the communications system is a
lengthy business. A physical disconnect, usually with
an on/off switch in a concealed location, will take 2D
days of work to accomplish and requires a Difficult
(10+) Electronics (comms) check. Failure indicates the
system is still partially active and will respond to pings
in a garbled fashion guaranteed to attract attention.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Reprogramming the transponder is a tricky business
but once completed the Travellers will have control over
the device. They can remove a default flag or alter the
short logs without difficulty once the security is cracked.
Other changes, such as setting up a fake transponder
identity, are lengthy tasks in their own right.
Cracking the security is a Formidable (14+)
Electronics (computers) check requiring 2D3 days of
work. Highly illegal toolkits containing ready-prepared
software patches are said to be available but these
are hard to come by and tend to be tailored to one
specific type of vessel. Once security is breached,
changes can be made but each change requires
a Difficult (10+) Electronics (computers) check to
accomplish without leaving traces. If this check is
failed, any interrogation of the transponder beyond a
standard passing vessel ping will indicate the logs or
transponder response have been doctored.
A ship can have more than one false identity
programmed into its transponder. Setting this up
requires a Very Difficult (12+) Electronics (computers)
check and takes D3 days. This must be accompanied
by a successful Average (8+) Admin check to invent
a plausible identity. If the Admin check is failed, the
ship’s identity will seem implausible or ‘thin’, although
this may well be enough to get by in the backwaters.
Failing the Electronics check results in a garbled mess
of code which will have to be restarted.
Transponder packages are sometimes sold on the
black market, usually for upwards of MCr1 each. Some
are copied from real ships, others custom-prepared.
A few are stolen from Naval Intelligence, having been
created for covert-operations vessels, which can lead
to complications when someone tries to use one.

R

