MISSILES AND TORPEDOES
In regions where missiles and torpedoes are popular
weapons, vessels are often designed with both heavy
anti-missile defences and the capability to saturate the
defences of another ship using a huge salvo. The key
to a saturation attack is simply number of weapons
arriving at once – the same number spread over a few
rounds might be defeated by point defences. Likewise,
the best defence against a saturation attack is to thin it
out early with antimissile fire from escorting craft, then
stop the last few ‘leakers’ with point-defence fire.
Defence against a large missile salvo might therefore
take place in several stages – interception by areadefence missiles, interception by dogfight missiles and
finally point-defence fire. An escorting ship can provide
point-defence fire for its charge with beam weapons
and can, of course, engage incoming missiles with
dogfight or area-defence missiles.

DOGFIGHT MISSILES (POINT-DEFENCE)

A dogfight missile is a smaller version of the standard
anti-shipping missile, optimised for fast response at
close range. Dogfight missiles can be carried on a rail
aboard a fighter or small craft rather than in standard
missile launchers, with two missiles carried per
firmpoint. Dogfight missiles have a maximum range
of Close but gain an additional DM+4 to attack within
this range (this includes when they are used with the
Point Defence reaction, as detailed on page 160 of the
Traveller Core Rulebook). Damage is 1D, making the
missile ineffective against anything larger than a fighter
or missile. This is not a drawback; dogfight missiles are
often used to intercept incoming missiles and torpedoes
or deal with small craft.

The use of dogfight missiles allows an incoming salvo
or flight of fighters to be engaged and thinned out
before point defence fire.
Weapon

TL Thrust

Damage Cost

Traits

Dogfight
Missile

10 14

1D

Cr75000

Smart

Interceptor 10 12
Missile

2D

Cr125000 Smart

INTERCEPTOR MISSILES (AREA DEFENCE)

Interceptor missiles, sometimes referred to as area
defence missiles, are designed to intercept incoming
weapons before they get close to the target. Two
interceptor missiles take up the same amount of
space as one standard missile, although they can
only be launched at the same rate. Damage is 2D
and the weapon gains a DM+2 to attack in addition
to other factors. If carried on a small craft’s firmpoint,
one interceptor missile can be carried on a rail, or a
standard missile rack can be used.
Interceptor missiles have a maximum range of Short.

If carried as anti-missile or anti-small craft weapons
by a vessel with conventional hardpoints, four dogfight
missiles take up the same amount of space as one
standard missile. They can only be launched at the
same rate as normal, however, so a double missile rack
turret can still only fire two missiles at once whether
they are ship-killers or dogfight missiles. Dogfight
missiles used in this manner are sometimes termed
point-defence missiles but are essentially the same
weapons as carried by fighters, just on a larger mount.

167

