T

CONTAINER-LAUNCHERS
A conventional missile rack mounted in a turret contains
12 missiles (four on a small craft firmpoint). These
are loaded one at a time into the launcher. Containerlaunchers offer a greater ‘surge’ missile capacity,
although once expended they cannot be reloaded in
time to fire again in a typical combat.
A container-launcher can be fitted on a hardpoint (not
a firmpoint) and contains four missiles or one torpedo
in a ready-to-launch configuration. These can be fired
individually or all at once, enabling a craft to make a
single overwhelming missile attack.
The container-launcher system costs Cr50000 plus the
cost of weapons (for standard missiles this is Cr250000
each) and can be used aboard any ship that has other
missile weapons such as a turret-mounted missile
rack. Ships that do not have such weaponry lack the
requisite electronics for arming and guidance, which
must be fitted at a cost of Cr150000.
Container-launchers are used on some military ships to
create a surge capacity for missile combat, or to carry
additional interceptor or dogfight missiles. As usual, one
standard missile can be replaced with two interceptors
or four dogfight missiles and can be launched all at
once if desired. These systems are also used by civilian
ships as a deterrent or to facilitate an escape as an
attacker deals with a swarm of missiles.

Missiles and Torpedoes

CONDUCTING MISSILE COMBAT

168

When a ship is under missile attack, defence is
conducted in stages. Area defence can be conducted by
any ship within range or along the ‘threat axis’ between
the target and launching platforms. This is typically
the target and any escorts or screening fighters. Area
defence is conducted using interceptor missiles.
Each interceptor missile can target one incoming
missile or torpedo. Each hit destroys one missile.
Torpedoes are tougher – each successful hit will
destroy a torpedo on a 1D roll of 4+.
Point defence can then be conducted by the target
ship and any close escorts it may have. Each dogfight
missile launched can target one missile or torpedo. A
dogfight missile will destroy a missile on a 1D roll of a
3+ and a torpedo on a 5+.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Close-in defence is the last chance to stop missiles
and is conducted with beam weapons, point defence
clusters and the like. The surviving missiles in a salvo
are targeted as per the point defence rules on page
162 of the Traveller Core Rulebook. Any that survive
these layers of defence and any attempts at electronic
warfare may attack the target ship.

ESCORTS
A vessel may also be protected from missile or small
craft attack by close escorts. A close escort acts as a
‘goalkeeper’ for the target ship, firing at missiles and
small craft as they fly past. If the attacker attempts a
‘rollback’ strategy whereby the escorts are targeted
first, this leaves the big ships unengaged in which case
the escorts are still doing their job. Close escorts can
only engage threats to their charge, otherwise they
cease to be acting in the close escort role. Returning
to this role from another operation requires 1D combat
rounds to move back into position.
A vessel cannot have more than 10% of its tonnage as
close escorts. This tonnage can be made up of small
craft or starships, or any mix of both.
Close escorts can target incoming small craft, missiles
or torpedoes with their weapons, or with dogfight
missiles. Each close escort, fighter, or small craft can
target one missile per dogfight missile launched, plus
at least one with its guns. Small craft with multiple
weapons gain DM+1 to attack per additional weapon
but can still only target one missile each. Larger vessels
may target one threat (missile, torpedo or small craft)
per turret and gain DM+1 per additional weapon in the
turret to their attack rolls. Hits destroy missiles and
torpedoes are tougher – each successful hit will destroy
a torpedo on a 1D roll of 4+. Attacks with weapons
other than guided missiles suffer DM-2 to attack when
targeting threats directed against another vessel.
It is a common tactic for some ships in a task force to
act as ‘force escorts’, positioned between high-value
vessels and likely threats. Force escorts carry out
area defence with interceptor missiles, after which an
incoming salvo is engaged by close escorts and then
the target itself using point defence weapons (dogfight
missiles and the guns of close escorts) before the
target itself finally engages in close-in defence with its
short-range weapons.

R

