V

ECTOR-BASED
SPACE COMBAT

The Space Combat chapter of the Traveller Core
Rulebook provides a relatively simple and exciting way
to resolve deadly fights between spacecraft. However,
there are certain limitations to the rules presented there.
The rules do not allow spacecraft to retain momentum
from one space combat round to the next. Thrust is
instead abstracted as a maximum speed per combat
round. In a game where ships may accelerate
continuously for many hours when travelling to or from
the 100-diameter jump limit or another planet in the
same system – before turning around and decelerating
continuously, starting at the halfway point until they
reach their destination – many battles could involve
ships moving at very high speeds.

When several ships are involved in a fight, they may
wish to travel in directions other than straight towards
or directly away from their adversaries, or multiple ships
may start a battle from widely-separated areas. Thus, a
system that only tracks range along a one-dimensional
axis prevents realistic ranges from being calculated
among the various participants.
The purpose of these supplementary rules are to add the
ability to calculate range between any number of ships
in a space combat scenario by using a map, and to allow
the accumulation of velocity over time. Suggestions
for using a physical map and virtual tabletops (VTTs)
are included. That said, some elements of realism are
ignored for the purposes of simplicity:
• Combat (like interstellar maps in Traveller) is
treated as two-dimensional — all ships and
interstellar bodies are treated as being on the
same flat plane.
• Spacecraft facing is ignored. It is assumed that ships
may pivot to any needed direction over the course
of each six-minute space combat round, even when
expending their full Thrust during a round.
• A map using either hexagons or squares is used
and spacecraft are generally treated as being in
the centre of the space they occupy.
• Simplifications have been made to the movement
of missiles to avoid adding unmanageable levels of
complexity during combat scenarios that may have
many salvoes seeking targets simultaneously.
• The gravitational effects of large bodies are
ignored, since Traveller assumes that spacecraft
capable of only Thrust 1 are able to move freely in
the gravity wells of planets.
These rules may be viewed as an add-on to the Space
Combat chapter, with each round divided into steps:
Manoeuvre, Attack and Actions. Steps are further
divided into phases.

169

