T

The primary methods employed to achieve vectorbased space combat are:
• Instead of using Range Bands, the position of each
ship and object is tracked on a map. Hexagonal
maps are preferred but a square grid can be used,
and the term ‘space’ is used to denote a single hex
or square. The map scale is such that each point
of Thrust applied modifies a spacecraft’s speed
by one space per round in a given direction. The
current vector (speed and direction of movement)
is tracked for each ship.
• During each Manoeuvre step, an Acceleration
phase is added immediately before the Movement
phase, in which each ship declares the changes to
its current vector.
• Because of the scale of the map, specific rules are
added for entering into dogfighting range and for
determining the firing range of spacecraft passing
close to one another during a round.

MAP SETUP

Vector-Based Space Combat

There are two initial decisions to be made when setting
up a map for vector-based space combat: whether a
physical or virtual map is to be used and whether to
use squares or hexagons as the spaces on the map.
Each have advantages and disadvantages.

170

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A physical map can be ideal for playing in-person
but the size may become challenging when a battle
involves ships with high acceleration or when the
battle takes place over a wide area. VTT software
such as Roll20 can allow you to make maps of any
size, although VTTs can struggle when a map is overly
large. VTT maps also provide a way to easily measure
distances and track speed and direction numbers on
virtual tokens so they can be seen by all Travellers.
A map using squares allows speed to be tracked in
two perpendicular directions, the traditional Cartesian
X and Y axes, with positive numbers indicating
movement in the ‘north’ and ‘east’ directions and
negative numbers for ‘south’ and ‘west’. Hexagonal
axes effectively have three ‘axes’. We recommend
orienting the hexes such that one axis provides a
straight line between the major opposing sides and
treating that as the X axis, and using the ‘northwest/
southeast’ line as your Y axis. In this way, movement
in the third axis can be treated as a positive or
negative combination of the X and Y axes. Whether
using hexagons or squares, speeds can be recorded
in the format (X, Y), where X and Y are replaced with
the positive or negative speed along those axes.

R

