When using a VTT, set the map scale to 648 kilometres
per square or hex and if possible, set the measuring
tool to use Euclidean measurement, rather than
counting squares or hexes. If this is not an option, then
counting hexes is acceptable for a hex map and for
a map of squares, the next most accurate results will
result by setting diagonal distances to 1.5 squares.
This means that in order to be at Adjacent or Close
range, ships must occupy the same space, and other
ranges are as follows for either squares or hexes:

In subsequent rounds, Thrust may be applied to
add to or subtract from a ship’s current vector, in
any combination. For example, a ship with Thrust 4,
currently moving at a vector of (4, -2), might apply
Thrust 4 to its X-axis movement, changing its vector
to (8, -2). Alternatively, it might maintain its movement
along the X axis and reverse Thrust along the Y-axis,
changing its vector to (4, 2) if all four of its Thrust is
used to do so. Or it could split the Thrust 4 between the
X and Y axes, resulting in vectors such as (6, -4), (3,
-5), or (1, -1). In later rounds, vectors can be increased
further and further until ships are moving at very high
speed. This adds a level of complexity and strategy that
should make battles very engaging.

The default scale for a space combat map, whether
using squares or hexagons, is 648 kilometres per
space, as this is the distance travelled by a spacecraft
acceleration at 1G continuously for the duration of a
six-minute space combat round. This allows speeds to
be calculated easily when applying Thrust: each point
of Thrust increases or decreases speed by one space
per round in a given direction, whether X, Y, or either Z
or X/Y when using a hex map.

Range in spaces

Adjacent or Close

0 (same space)

Short

1 (or 2, see below)

Medium

15

Long

38

Very Long

77

Distant

78 or more

A map size of 100 spaces or more in the ‘long’
direction (assuming a rectangular map) is helpful to
provide enough room for ships to close from (or flee
to) Distant range. However, if all ships in the combat
are relatively slow (Thrust 1 or 2 maximum) and it
makes more narrative sense to start them closer
together, a smaller map can be practical. Fast ships
need room to move!
Because the centre-to-centre distance between two
spaces at this scale is only a little farther than the
limit of Short range (1,296 kilometres instead of 1,250
kilometres), at the Referee’s discretion it can be helpful
for gameplay purposes to rule that the maximum limit of
Short range is two spaces distance instead of only one.
Whether using a VTT or physical map, it can be helpful
to add a table on the side of your map with the above
range table, or to create a cheat sheet to make it easy
to see the range limits at a glance. For a physical
map, the distances can be translated into inches or
centimetres according to the square/hex scale of the
map, such that ranges can be determined with tape
measures (measure centre-to-centre of each space,
with the Referee settling any disputes).

Vector-Based Space Combat

MAP SCALES

Range Band

173

