T

Each ship should receive its own token, counter, or
miniature on the map. For a VTT, online tools such as
Token Stamp 2 can be used to create virtual tokens
with ship names or art, which can be imported into
the VTT. For a physical map, miniatures, counters or
cardboard cut-outs sized to fit the map can be used. In
either case, each token should be easily identifiable,
including the name of the ship and its current vectors.
Remember that in this system, facing does not
have a mechanical effect but turning the token to its
approximate direction of movement can be a useful
visual aid. For a physical map, a small sticky note
next to each token can be used to record the ship’s
name and vector, ideally in pencil since the vectors
will change from round to round. VTTs usually allow
tokens to be named, and some include visual counters
for gameplay elements such as ‘Armour Class’ and
‘Hit Points’ that could be used to record the current
speeds in the X and Y directions. It can also be useful
to see at a glance what a ship’s maximum Thrust is (for
ships with Reaction drives, a good practice is to record
maximum Thrust as M+R, where M is the maximum
manoeuvre drive Thrust, and R is the maximum
reaction drive Thrust – thus, a ship with an M-drive 5
and R-drive 3 would be denoted as (5+3). If using a
VTT that does not provide visual token counters, modify
the name of the VTT token with its current vectors, for
example, ‘Beowulf (3, -2)’.

Vector-Based Space Combat

When multiple ships of the same type are moving
together, a single token can be used to track the group
– either use the name to denote the number of craft (for
example, ‘Light Fighters x5’ or note the number on the
sticky note being used to track their movement vectors.

174

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

OBJECTS IN SPACE

Planets, asteroids, derelict ships, space stations and
so on may also be represented as tokens. Be sure to
scale objects appropriately – a large planet may be
several spaces wide! It is generally simplest to treat
these objects as stationary on the map, even for
space stations that have a maximum Thrust of 0.1G
but in some cases the Referee may choose to give
them a speed.

ROUND SEQUENCE
ACCELERATION PHASE

After the Initiative phase but before the Movement
phase, a new Acceleration phase is added. In this
phase, each ship in reverse initiative order determines
how much Thrust they will apply to movement this
round, adds that to their current recorded vectors and
records their new vector values. Using reverse initiative
order in this phase allows higher-initiative ships to react
to the anticipated movement of ‘slower’ ships. Just as
in the space combat rules, any Thrust intended to be
used for evasive action or helping gunners cannot be
applied as movement Thrust during this phase. Do not
move ships or missiles on the map during this phase.
That occurs during the Movement phase.
For example, a ship with recorded vectors of (-12,
7) and a maximum Thrust 6 applies Thrust 4 in
the positive-X direction (slowing its speed along
the X axis) and Thrust 2 in the positive-Y direction
(increasing its speed along that axis). Its resulting
speed vectors will therefore become (-8, 9), so the
Traveller records that as their new speed.

R

