It can be helpful for Travellers to use temporary tokens
to visualise where their ships would move if they do not
apply any Thrust at all this round – this can help them
determine how much Thrust they want to apply this
round, and in which direction. A simple coin could be
used on a physical map, leaving the ship’s miniature
or counter in place and counting out the movement
to place the coin in the space where the ship will end
up this round if it simply coasts along; a supply of
temporary tokens can be useful to have at the edge of
a VTT map for this purpose as well.
If missiles are in flight, then after all ships have
applied Thrust, add the missiles’ maximum Thrust (10
or 15, per the Traveller Core Rulebook or High Guard)
to their current speed (see ‘Missiles in Vector-Based
Combat’).
Once all ships and missiles have applied Thrust
and recorded their new vectors, proceed to the
Movement phase.

MOVEMENT PHASE

Because all movement is treated as simultaneous,
and all vectors for this round were recorded in the
Acceleration phase, ships and missiles can be moved
in any order. Spacecraft move a number of spaces
according to their vectors. For example, a ship with
X and Y vectors of (3, -5) moves three spaces in the
positive-X direction, and five spaces in the negative-Y
direction. It does not matter if you execute the X or Y
portion of the ship’s movement first, as it will end up in
the same space either way.

MISSILES IN VECTOR-BASED SPACE COMBAT

Missile-firing ships can potentially fire multiple salvoes
of missiles at different targets, round after round.
When using vector-based space combat rules, ignore
the Missile Flight table in the Traveller Core Rulebook,
and use these rules instead.
Missiles can take several rounds to arrive at their
targets and if several ships are all firing missiles,
that might result in many additional and necessary
tokens on the map. Tracking and plotting vectors for
all these missiles could slow the game to a crawl, so
instead of tracking vectors for each salvo of missiles,
only its speed is tracked, increasing each round
according to its Thrust, and the firing ship simply
moves the missiles that far in the direction of its
target during the Movement phase.
Create a new token for each new salvo. The token
name or associated sticky note should include:
• The name of the firing ship and the salvo’s target
• The number of missiles in the salvo
• If using non-Standard missiles from High Guard,
the type of missiles in the salvo
• The current speed derived from the firing ship
(missiles start with their firing ship’s vector)
• The number of rounds of Thrust left for the missile
to find its target (starts at 10)

Vector-Based Space Combat
175

