T

The easiest way to determine the starting speed of
missiles is to place a token on the space where the
firing ship would end up if it does not expend any
Thrust next round and measure the distance in spaces
from the firing ship to that space, rounding to the
nearest whole number. For example, on a square map,
if the firing ship has vectors of (2, -2), the range on
a VTT map if using the recommended measurement
method would be three squares, so the speed would be
3. Measuring the same distance on a physical map with
a scale of one inch per square would show 2.8 inches,
rounded up to 3. Thus, the starting speed of these
missiles would be 3. Similar methods could be used on
a hex map, or if using a different measurement system.

Vector-Based Space Combat

Once the token is created and the firing ship, target,
number of missiles, missile type and starting speed
are recorded, it is placed on the same space as the
firing ship (if this is not convenient, place the token
in the space adjacent to that of the firing ship). The
missiles do not accelerate or move any further on the
round in which they are fired. In the Acceleration phase
of the following round, the missiles’ maximum Thrust
is added to their current speed and the number of
rounds of remaining Thrust is decreased by one. In the
Movement phase, the firing ship moves the missiles
up to that many spaces towards their target. If the
missiles reach their target, place them on the same
space as the target (or adjacent to the target, if that is
more convenient). Missile detection, countermeasures
and missile impacts are handled as stated in the Space
Combat chapter of the Traveller Core Rulebook.

176

As missiles are destroyed via electronic warfare or
point defence fire, decrease the number of missiles
on the token, and remove the token if and when
the last missile is destroyed. Damage from missiles
that reach their target is handled per the Space
Combat rules, as normal.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

LARGER-SCALE MAPS

Often, adversaries in space combat may start from a
great distance apart (for example, from 100 diameters,
or even from the distance to a gas giant) and it would
be very impractical to attempt to run a combat scenario
on a map thousands of spaces across. Even so, the
Referee might want to track the approach of opposing
ships or fleets from great distances for immersion and
dramatic effect. Fortunately, the math is such that it is
easy to create maps of greater scale: for each multiple
of 10 in the width of each space, increasing the duration
of each round by a multiple of four maintains the Thrust
1 = 1 space scale. For example, if the size of each
space on the map is increased from 648 kilometres to
6,480 kilometres and the rounds are increased from six
minutes in length to 24, acceleration and movement
can be treated exactly as it is during normal space
combat rounds using the vector rules above. Of course,
at any scale beyond 648 kilometres per space, range
will be Distant and combat will be impossible until the
adversaries have moved closer to each other.
The following table provides suggested map scales for
various common starting ranges.
While there may be situations when it makes sense to
increase the scale of your map, it is more likely to be
useful when opposing sides start at a great distance,
move towards each other using a higher-scale map,
and then ‘zoom in’ as the ships get closer, until they
are on a x1 scale map using standard six-minute space
combat rounds. Either way, the process is similar.
When moving from larger-scale to the next smaller
scale, increase the distance between ships in spaces
by a factor of 10 and multiply all vectors by 2.5
(rounding up). When moving from a smaller-scale map
to the next larger scale, divide the distances between
ships by a factor of 10, and divide each vector by 2.5,
rounding to the nearest whole number.

Movement Scales
Scale

Space Width

Round Length

Suggested use

x1

648km

6 minutes

World Surface to Orbit

x10

6,480km

24 minutes

Orbiting Satellite or 100 diameters from mainworld for smaller
worlds, or larger worlds when ships have low Thrust

x100

64,800km

96 minutes

100 diameters from mainworlds for larger worlds, especially
for fast-moving ships

x1,000

648,000km

6.4 hours

Close Neighbour World

x10,000

6,480,000km

25.6 hours

Close or Far Gas Giant

R

