For example: two ships on a x10 scale map have been
accelerating towards each other for several rounds.
They have reached a range of 9 spaces (58.320
kilometres at this scale); one ship has a vector of (+15,
0) and the other has a vector of (-12, 0). Moving them
to a x1 scale map would put them at a distance of
90 spaces. The first ship’s vector would be rounded
up to (38, 0) and the second ship’s vector becomes
(-30, 0). This same process would be used if moving
from a x1,000 scale map to a x100 scale map. At any
map scale beyond x1, the Initiative, Acceleration and
Movement phases would happen as defined in the
above rules but combat actions will not occur until the
scale has been reduced to x1.

DOGFIGHTING IN VECTOR-BASED
SPACE COMBAT

Because the scale of even the 1x scale map is still
quite large at 648 kilometres per space, and ships
may be travelling at vastly different speeds even
when they cross paths, additional conditions are
needed to allow ships to dogfight.
Both ships must end their movement for a round in the
same space, with the same vectors. The ship with the
higher initiative will be better able to match positions
and speeds in order to achieve this, but Improve
Initiative rolls by the ship’s captain can potentially make
up the difference if it is close.
At that point, if both ships’ wish to dogfight, then
proceed to the Dogfighting rules presented in the
Traveller Core Rulebook. If neither wishes to dogfight,
then treat the ships as being at Short range.

As described in the Traveller Core Rulebook, resolve the
dogfight fully before returning to space combat rounds.

In most cases, firing range should be determined
based on the final positions of ships in a combat
round, that is, after all ships have performed their
movement for the round, and attacks and damage
resolution happen in the Attack step, in initiative order.
However, in some cases, it might happen that two
fast-moving ships could approach each other and
pass by at a relatively short range during the middle
of their movement. In such cases, it makes sense to
allow firing to happen at the closer range, and for the
ships to decide when to shoot, which could override
the initiative order – they must determine whether it is
better to wait until the last possible moment in order to
fire at the shortest possible range, or to fire first at a
longer distance and risk missing.
When two ships look like they will pass by each other
in a given combat round, the Referee may choose to
resolve their movement together in order to provide
an opportunity for the ships to take advantage of
potentially shorter range. A good way to approximate
this is to drop a temporary token at the final space
the ships will move to this round and then move the
ships roughly along their respective paths until they
reach the closest point. At any time, each ship can
declare it wishes to fire.
At that point, leave the ships where they are on the
map, and proceed to the Attack Step phase of the
combat round; resolve these attacks at the initiative of
the ship that decided to fire, even if this means skipping
the initiative of the ship who hesitated. Once the firing
ship has resolved its attacks and any damage done,
the Referee should continue the movement of the
passing ships, which might allow the hesitant ship to
fire at an even closer range, should they survive the
other vessel’s attacks.
If the Referee judges that the passing ships’ paths
cross in the same map space at the same time, they
may allow a single six-second round of Dogfighting
as they pass each other. Use an opposed Pilot check
described in the Dogfighting section above if one of the
ships wants to avoid the dogfight.

Vector-Based Space Combat

If only one of the ships wishes to keep out of
dogfighting range, have the ships’ pilots do an opposed
Pilot (Dexterity) check, allowing any unused Thrust to
be used in this step as a +DM on a one-for-one basis.
If the pursuing pilot fails the opposed check, treat the
ships as being in Short range.

SHIPS THAT PASS IN THE NIGHT

177

