STARSHIP AUTOMATION
Increased automation reduces crew requirements,
although a smaller crew is not always desirable. Ships
with few personnel aboard cannot react as well to a
crisis or damage; the loss of a single crewmember can
be crippling to a very tightly crewed vessel. However,
automation is useful under many circumstances.
Virtually all ships have some degree of automation,
from autoloaders on missile systems to automated
monitoring systems for the power plant. These are
standard labour-saving devices and without them crew
requirements increase dramatically. A heavily automated
vessel makes greater use of such devices and ties them
into an integrated crew-assistance system.

Instead of reducing the number of personnel aboard,
automation can be used to make their lives easier
and more comfortable. This is not usually done except
aboard long-range ships, where crew are likely to be
aboard for extended periods and luxury vessels.
Crew-intensive vessels have virtually no automation;
everything is done by hand. This is the case aboard
some very primitive ships but is inefficient to say the
least. Low automation is cheap but again is inefficient
unless the crew work hard, in which case fatigue begins
to set in after a week in space. DMs for shipboard tasks
are applied to all checks – engineering, astrogation,
landing; even making lunch in the galley is a trial
aboard a ship without a powered can-opener.

The cost of automating a vessel is based on the total
cost of its hull, plus drives and power plant, as shown
on the Ship Automation table.
Crew requirements are based on a percentage
reduction of the normal number of personnel required.
This tends to affect engineering and operations
personnel more than flight crew, since there are many
jobs that cannot be shared. For example, a vessel that
has four small craft aboard needs a pilot for each of
them if they are to be used at the same time. It is not
possible for one crewmember to somehow be piloting
the main vessel and two of its craft at once unless they
are fully autonomous robotic devices. By the same
token, a ship that needs one astrogator but has a 40%
crew requirement reduction still needs an astrogator.

Ship Automation

178

Automation

Cost

Crew Requirement

Effect

Crew-intensive

-40%

+100%

DM-4 on all shipboard tasks.

Low Automation

-20%

+40%

DM-1 on all shipboard tasks after 1 week in space

Standard Automation

Normal

Normal

None

Enhanced Automation

+25%

-10%

None

Advanced Automation

+50%

-25%

DM+1 on all shipboard tasks

High Automation

+100%

-40%

DM+2 on all shipboard tasks

