STARSHIP WEAPONRY
Some of the weapons in this chapter are likely only to
be encountered in relic or prototype form, although they
may be in use by some advanced civilisations. Others
are simpler and might be encountered in the hands
of anyone from pirates to naval vessels. Not all need
be mounted on ships and may be present as part of a
planetary defence network.

ANTIMATTER STREAMER
An antimatter streamer is a crude particle beam
weapon which fires a stream of heavy antimatter
particles. This causes severe explosive effects on the
target, although the beam dissipates (spectacularly)
over short distances. An antimatter streamer is
a bay-sized weapon, with a maximum range of
Medium. Damage is attenuated at this distance;
each dice of damage is treated as D3 at Medium
range. Closer targets take full damage. Conversely,
the dissipating spray of antimatter increases the
likelihood of a successful hit at longer rangers; the
streamer gains DM+2 to attack rolls at Short range
and DM+4 at Medium range.

PLASMA/FUSION CARRONADE

A carronade is a short-ranged plasma weapon firing
a stream (more accurately a spray, since the stream
tends to spread out quickly) of superheated gas.
The weapon is named for an archaic short-barrelled
cannon also referred to as a ‘smasher’. Carronades
are primarily used aboard fast ships intended to close
to very short range and deliver a powerful strike. They
are most effective against lightly armoured vessels, as
the main drawback of carronade weapons is their poor
performance against armour.
Other than close-in firepower, carronades also have
the advantage of being relatively cheap. A carronade
consumes four hardpoints on a ship’s hull and cannot
be fitted to vessels with less than four. More advanced
ships can make use of fusion carronades, which are
similar but use more energetic plasma.

180

HULLCUTTER

A hullcutter is a large and powerful weapon firing a
beam of exotic particles designed to simply cut enemy
ships into pieces. It is possible that this weapon is a
precursor of the disintegrator beam, which can cause
an entire ship to dissolve into its constituent atoms.
Early hullcutters require a large bay but on extremely
advanced ships they can be fitted into smaller mounts.

DISINTEGRATOR
Shipboard disintegrator weapons are a very rare spinal
mount and typically associated with the Ancients
or other old, powerful civilisations. Their stream of
energised exotic particles cause a reaction in the atoms
and molecules of the target. As atomic bonds fail, the
ship’s matter begins to drift apart in fragments varying
in size from a turret or bridge down to single atoms. In
some cases, atoms recombine and release small highenergy explosions. Maximum range for disintegrator
weapons varies according to their Tech Level.

GROUND DEFENCE GUNS

Whilst missiles are the standard mid-tech weapons
for defence against spacecraft, supplemented or
supplanted by energy weapons at higher Tech
Levels, some cultures prefer conventional or
hypervelocity guns. These can endanger a ship
stationary in orbit and guns can certainly make a
landing site very unhealthy. Standard artillery can
be used to bombard a landing site to deny it to the
enemy or inflict damage but much higher-velocity
weapons are needed to hit a moving ship.
The earliest effective ground defence guns appear at
TL4. These are essentially a larger version of antiaircraft guns, firing an explosive shell at relatively high
velocity. Early guns of this sort can only fire on targets
approaching their defended area; they cannot attack
orbital targets. Ground defence weapons are usually
mounted in fixed fortifications but can be carried aboard
maritime ships or extremely large vehicles.

