T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

TORPEDO-INTERCEPTOR CLUSTER
At TL6, very high velocity guns firing discarding
sabot penetrator rounds can engage targets in low
orbit, although the time required to reach the target
imposes DM-4 to attack rolls against any orbital
target that can manoeuvre under power – this is
in addition to any evasion the target may attempt.
The usual tactic is to use several guns to fire a box
barrage around the target’s projected location using
fragmentation shells in the hope of doing at least
some damage. A direct hit with a penetrator round
will do far more harm but is unlikely to hit at all.
At TL7, hypervelocity guns are available which can
engage a target in high orbit with at least some chance
of a hit. High orbital targets are subject to DM-4 to
attack rolls in addition to any evasion performed,
providing the target can manoeuvre. Targets in low orbit
are subject to DM-2 if they can manoeuvre.
Fragmentation ammunition does half as much damage
as a standard penetrator round but gains DM+2 to
attack rolls which may offset some targeting difficulties.

Starship Weaponry

GENERAL-PURPOSE MASS DRIVER

182

A large but fairly low-powered mass driver, this is not
a weapon as such but can be pressed into service
for bombardment purposes. It is not very useful as
a ship-to-ship weapon, suffering DM-4 to attack rolls
against any target that can manoeuvre, in addition
to any evasion attempts. Launchers of this sort are
often carried aboard mining ships to deliver ore to
a remote destination and the same system can be
used to bombard a planet with asteroidal debris or
even the compacted debris of an orbital defence
squadron. Launchers are also used to deploy mines
and satellites, saving their own drive systems for
necessary manoeuvres. A general-purpose mass
driver requires a small bay for its mountings and can
launch a mass equal to its own. If additional capacity
is required, two tons aboard the ship are required
per ton of additional launch capacity, at a cost of
Cr75000 and 3 Power per ton.

Torpedo-interceptors are shipped as clusters of
four; a cluster fits on a hardpoint instead of a turret
or other mount. Designed to be launched at the last
instant before a missile or torpedo impacts the vessel,
interceptors are sometimes carried by vessels with
no other missile capability and require no additional
electronics. Interceptor clusters are one-shot systems
which must be removed and replaced – a dockside
job – after firing. Torpedo interceptors can be used only
against incoming missiles or torpedoes. Any or all of the
interceptors in a cluster can be fired at once; each kills
one missile on 6+ on a 2D roll and a torpedo on 8+.

WEAPON TRAITS
Several new weapon traits are introduced here
for starship weaponry.
Chain Reaction: This weapon continues to
deal damage over time as its effects dissipate
slowly. A target hit by a Chain Reaction weapon
takes normal damage the first round then half
as much the following round (rounding down),
halving again each round thereafter until damage
reaches zero. If another Chain Reaction hit
is received during this time, only the highest
damage is applied (so only one Chain Reaction
effect is taking place at any one time).
Reductor: This weapon ruins armour as it
attacks a ship. The Armour score of a ship
hit by a Reductor weapon is reduced by -1
for every dice rolled for damage. Damage is
applied after this reduction.
Weak: This weapon can devastate an
unprotected target but its lethality quickly
drops off when met with armour. The Armour
score of the target is doubled against the
damage this weapon deals.

R

