C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

ASLAN

The Aslan are a race of intelligent beings; their
starfaring culture is the youngest of all the Major Races,
having had star flight for less than 3,200 years. Despite
their youth, their spread through space has been rapid,
driven by the instinctive territorial desires that are
central to the Aslan male.

PHYSIOLOGY

Aslan are descended from four-limbed carnivorous
pouncer stock, which was originally near the top of
the food chain in the forests of their homeworld,
Kusyu. About 1.8 million years ago Kusyu’s climate
shifted, with the result that the extensive forests of
Tafohti (Kusyu’s largest continent) almost completely
disappeared. As the forests dwindled, so did the small
fauna upon which the Aslan had preyed, forcing them
to venture out into the expanding grassland plains. The
large grazing animals in these regions were too much
for a lone Aslan to kill and they began hunting in ahriy
(prides) of several families. The strongest male became
the leader and his family received the best parts of
kills, choice sleeping places and were first in line at
any waterhole.
The Aslan that has evolved from those beginnings is,
like a human, an upright biped averaging two metres
in height and 100 kilograms in mass. There are two
sexes: male and female, of which the most notable
external difference is the male’s increased size and more
impressive mane. Females outnumber males by a ratio
of three to one.
The Aslan hand has three fingers opposing one
medially-placed thumb and all have retractable claws.
In addition, Aslan have a single highly specialised
claw under each thumb; this dewclaw folds back jackknife fashion into a horny covering in the base of the
thumb and palm. The presence of these claws and the
general nature of their body structure make the Aslan
somewhat clumsy by comparison with humans but what
they lack in dexterity they more than make up for in
strength and endurance.
Aslan all have tails, although the length of this
appendage has diminished over time and is now little
more than a vestigial stump in some bloodlines.

O

N

E

