Aslan sleep about one-third of the time; shaped by their
homeworld’s rotation period, their sleeping time is roughly
10 to 11 hours (one-third of Kusyu’s 32-hour day). Like
humans, lack of sleep degrades their abilities drastically.
The Aslan gestation period is roughly one ftahea, or 10
months in human terms. Most are single births – twins
are virtually unheard of and are almost always female.
Male twins are rare enough to be virtually unknown. The
young are born encapsulated in tough embryonic cauls,
which are then cut away by the mother using a claw (or
in modern times, by a surgeon’s laser). Cubs mature
quickly, learning to walk in only two months.
True to their pouncer ancestry, Aslan are capable of
short bursts of speed somewhat greater than that
manageable by humans. They also have slightly superior
hearing and night vision. Otherwise, they are one of
the most human-like of all alien races, excepting, of
course, the Vargr (who are, after all, genetically-altered
mammalian stock originally from Earth).
Early Terran explorers regarded Aslan as ‘lion-like’ and
the simile has stuck ever since, although Aslan bear
little resemblance to Terrestrial lions. Nonetheless, this
early misnomer has influenced a great deal of human
thinking about them, including terminology (the use
of pride to translate ahriy, for instance) and ascribed
behaviour, which is not at all leonine. The derivation of
the word Aslan is unknown but is sometimes credited to
human explorers who first contacted the race.

LIFESPAN

Aslan develop faster than humans and are considered
adult at 15 years. A male Aslan is in his prime from the
age of 20 to around 40, whereupon he begins to decline
rapidly. Males live naturally into their 60s; females
reach the mid-50s on average. Gerontology is not a
priority for Aslan medical science, so aged Aslan who
wish to prolong their lifespan unnaturally must seek out
alternative sources of medical treatment.

DIET

The Aslan are almost exclusively carnivorous. They
consume a few nuts, fruits and berries but scorn root
vegetables, grains and other plant-based foods as being
fit only for ‘herd animals’. The Aslan practise extensive
agriculture to maintain their vast herds of livestock and
there is some archaeological evidence to suggest that
early Aslan had a diet higher in vegetable matter but
cultural emphasis on predation and carnivorous behaviour
means no modern Aslan would willingly eat plants.

The Aslan have the technology to produce synthesised
meat but it is consumed only by the poorest members
of society or on worlds too scantly populated or
inhospitable to support agriculture. Even frozen meat is
considered extremely poor fare – in any civilised Aslan
house or restaurant, the meat is slaughtered right on
the spot and rich Aslan even hunt their own food on a
regular basis, stalking prey across private estates. As
a single herd animal provides far more meat than even
a teenage male could eat, almost all Aslan dinners are
communal affairs. A whole family plus guests will dine
together. Aslan normally eat one large meal a day and
sleep after eating.
Small animals are eaten raw, while larger cuts of
meat are lightly cooked and heavily spiced. The Aslan
have an astonishing repertoire of spices and chemical
preparations both subtle and bold. Aslan try to maintain
such culinary practices even on spacecraft, using
mouse-sized robots covered in a meaty sheath to mimic
live prey and carrying herd animals in cryoberths for
later consumption.
Aslan cannot naturally digest Terran-derived meats but
adding a few genetically-engineered stomach bacteria
corrects this. Some Aslan take pills when visiting human
worlds to adjust their biochemistry, although many clans
now include these bacteria in medical treatments given
to all children soon after birth.

SOCIETY

The Aslan have long been a warrior race; they are noble
and proud, devoted to those in authority above them and
responsible for those who owe fealty from below. Aslan
society is based on family and its relationships.

FAMILY STRUCTURES
An individual Aslan is usually a member of a family
(ekho) of 2–12 persons under a patriarchal leader. This
family will generally include the male family head,
one or more wives, plus children and various blood
relatives of the leader (unmarried brothers and sisters,
aged surviving parents no longer maintaining separate
families, adopted orphans of blood relatives).

The Aslan do not distinguish between mothers – all cubs
sired by a male are cared for equally by all the male’s
wives. Patrilinear descent is all that is important in Aslan
society. Cubs are more capable than human infants and
grow more quickly. A cub can walk by the age of three
months and can speak within five or six months.

5

