A child is considered part of the father’s family until:

DUELLING AND

•
•
•

HONOUR

She is married off to a male (if female)
He acquires Territory (if male)
The father dies

In the latter case, the father’s Territory passes to the
eldest son. The eldest son may choose to include his
siblings in his family but is under no formal obligation to
do so.
Several families combine into a pride (ahriy), with
one family dominant. The leader of that family is also
the leader of the pride. Other families owe him and
his family their fealty. A number of prides form a clan
(huiha), with one pride dominant. Again, prides in the
clan owe fealty to the clan’s leader. The clan’s leader is
expected, in turn, to protect and provide for members
of the clan settling disputes between prides within the
clan, and administering his holdings wisely and well.
Clans may, in turn, owe fealty to more powerful clans,
particularly where blood relationships exist. The Tlaukhu
consists of the Twenty-Nine pre-eminent Aslan clans,
the strongest within the Hierate; many other clans owe
them fealty, either directly or through a chain of other
clans. Overall, however, clans owing fealty to one of the
Tlaukhu are in the minority; most clans are independent
and function accordingly.

BELIEFS

Aslan are spiritual without being especially religious;
they honour their ancestors and ask for their blessings
but do not worship them per se. Every Aslan home
has a Shrine of Heroes, containing relics of important
ancestors; most Aslan will also carry a pouch
containing other keepsakes or some other heirloom.
Honourable behaviour comes from obeying the
traditions of the ancestors.
The Aslan do not recognise any supreme being or divine
plan but believe the universe is alive in some fashion.
Perfect actions – actions unfettered by doubt, by fear, by
irrelevant worries or concerns – can bring an Aslan into
accord with the universe for an instant. Such moments
are called aokol.

6

Aslan pride makes them a touchy race and it is quite
easy for Aslan to give or take offence. This behaviour
originated in the struggles for dominance within families
and prides, and remains a basic part of the Aslan
personality. Over the centuries, Aslan touchiness has
grown formal and extremely ritualised; this rigid pattern
of behaviour has been necessary to reduce conflict and
injury in the settlement of personal disputes. It should
be noted that this struggle for dominance is so deeply
embedded into the Aslan psyche that it cannot be
unlearned. An Aslan can no more ignore an infringement
on his Territory or challenge to his authority than a
human could ignore the urge to breathe.
Non-Aslan who do not understand these ritual forms
of conduct find it difficult to get along with individual
Aslan. For their part, most sophisticated Aslan have
learned a certain amount of tolerance towards those who
do not fit into the Aslan cultural pattern but the cultural
patterns are deeply ingrained and offence is still taken
from time-to-time.
Aslan society generally categorises abrasive, uncultured
or offensive behaviour into three classes; familiarity,
impoliteness and discourtesy.
Familiarity is the treatment of social superiors as equals;
it involves social interaction, extreme friendliness
or condescending treatment by a lower class Aslan
toward an upper-class Aslan. Touching an Aslan without
permission is an instance of familiarity.
Impoliteness stems from a lack of proper education
or upbringing; it might include failure to address a
social superior by the correct honorifics, failure to
respond promptly when addressed or losing one’s
temper in public.
Discourtesy is a deliberate insult and springs from
contempt, a lack of respect or malice; outward actions
may often be perceived by Aslan as discourtesy although
not meant to be so by someone alien to Aslan culture.

