Failing to immediately apologise for familiarity is
impolite; failing to apologise for impoliteness when
corrected is discourteous. An Aslan may apologise
verbally or by making signs of submission (offering one’s
throat to the offended party or abasing oneself). Without
an apology, any of these three behaviours can give
offence and an offended Aslan becomes an enemy.
Discourtesy, however, is grounds for duelling. Duelling
is a common way by which insults and slights are
resolved, especially if rituals and other tensionrelieving forms fail to defuse the problem. Duels follow
well-established rituals and are fought to the death
only rarely. The rules of conduct and protocols that
govern them clearly state what is allowed and not
allowed. A challenge to duel is never made lightly. At
the same time, reluctance to challenge is seen in Aslan
culture as weakness, a trait few Aslan wish to exhibit.
Most challenges are issued in response to discourtesy;
elaborate but informal rituals have evolved wherein
one party is discourteous and actually gains stature if
the other does not reply with a challenge. Much of this
behaviour seems incomprehensible to individuals not
steeped in Aslan culture.
The rituals for duelling, however, are strictly segregated
by gender. Males and females never duel; insults and
slights by the opposite sex are dismissed with the
excuse that males (or females) do not understand
female (or male) honour. When a transgression
becomes too blatant, too extreme or too unacceptable,
then a member of the insulted Aslan’s immediate
family (and of the correct sex) will respond to the
discourtesy with a challenge.
The barriers against certain duels within a family are
almost as strong as those for cross-gender duelling.
Children never duel with their parents (which socially
includes any adults in their family of the previous
generation, not just their biological parents).
To issue an informal challenge, the offended party
need only bare his or her claws and roar a challenge
to the other Aslan. Informal challenges are resolved as
quickly as possible and often fought on the spot. Formal
challenges are more involved and reserved only for the
most important disputes, such as legal arguments. To
make a formal challenge, the offended party must contact
the clan head or a sanctioned representative of the clan
head. The clan head will then decide whether or not
to permit the duel and state the time and place of the
contest, which will usually be in a clan duelling arena.

Duels between Aslan take place as personal combat.
Combatants use only their hands (and dewclaws);
combat continues until one side receives a wound.
In the case of grave insult, the fight may continue to
unconsciousness for one participant. The winner has his
or her honour satisfied; the loser is required by social
and ritual standards to apologise (even if he or she
was the one originally insulted). Duels to the death are
not unheard of but are sanctioned only in the rarest of
cases. Armour other than light armour is banned, as are
combat drugs and other temporary augmentations.
Those too sick or old to duel may appoint a champion
in their place but this is extremely rare. Traditionally,
there is a clan champion whose responsibility it is
to fight for those clan members who cannot duel but
in a pinch, any Aslan of the correct gender can be
nominated as champion.
For non-Aslan, one way to gain an Aslan’s respect is
to be willing to challenge when required and to duel if
challenged. Aslan consider those who do not embrace
their culture to be tahiwihteakhtau (barbarians).
Willingness to behave in the honourable fashion is an
indication that one is not a completely ignorant barbarian.
Since Aslan respect prowess in battle, upholding one’s
honour in a duel is especially respected. However,
if both parties agree, the duel can be replaced by a
contest of a different kind, such as a debate, board
game or even the roll of a dice. Such substitution is
frowned upon in most circles, as it is seen as degenerate
and weak but is common in places like the scientific
community, where females will debate the validity of
different theories with logic and mathematics, not claws.
In space, Aslan fighter pilots have been known to duel.
Such fighter duels have even decided the outcome of
whole fleet engagements, where both sides agree to
abide by the results of the duel instead of fighting.
Fighter duels are fought to the first successful hit.
A duel ends when the loser is wounded (or slain, in
the case of duels to the death). The victor may not
deliberately slay the loser but (if male) is within his rights
to scalp the loser. Duels can also be fought challenging
one party’s right to breed (this is normally done in
response to one Aslan male having sex with the wife of
another), in which case the victor may geld the loser.

7

