Duels and SOC

Border Wars, this tenet of Aslan honour confused many
humans – an Aslan warrior might bomb a human city
indiscriminately, then tend to the victims with great care.
What had changed was that now the city was conquered
by the Aslan, the humans were now chattels of a landowning male. The Aslan warrior now respected the
humans, as part of his respect for the conquering lord.

Honour

The second pillar of honour is tradition. The ways of
ancestors and heroes are the correct ways for an Aslan
to behave. This does not mean Aslan are slaves to the
old ways – new technologies make life easier and better,
and Aslan must adapt to new worlds – but it does mean
any new developments must be viewed through the eyes
of tradition. The teachings of the priests and poets must
be obeyed, especially those relating to war and duelling.

Most duels are over trivial matters and do not affect the
Aslan’s SOC. However, formal or especially notable duels
can make or break the reputation of an Aslan. A Traveller
who wins a formal duel against another Aslan of equal
or higher SOC gains DM+1 to any SOC-based check with
Aslan; a Traveller who loses a formal duel suffers DM-2.

Honour among the Aslan is primarily a male concern.
Females are expected to be honourable but it is the
males who are obsessed with their honour (or, to quote
the poet Tarelriylr, only males have the greatness of soul
to be truly honourable).
The Aslan concept of honour rests on three pillars.
The simplest form of honour is respect, specifically,
respect for the territory of another. An honourable Aslan
does not trespass on the territory of another without
permission or without intent to conquer. Territory, in
this case, covers all the possessions of another person –
land, money, wives, everything. An Aslan does not walk
on the land owned by another unless the other Aslan
allows him access or unless he intends to take it openly
from the other Aslan. Conquest is honourable; theft is
not. Aslan do not work in secret (even Wars of Assassins
should first be declared openly).
From this concept of respect for territory, the Aslan have
built a whole system of feudal honour. Lords respect
the territory of their vassals, vassals respect the territory
of their lords. A good Aslan respects the privacy of
another and does not gossip, as this is a form of social
trespass, leading to strange situations where an Aslan
might studiously ignore the questionable actions of
a neighbour for years, never mentioning it to another
soul, and then violently intervene without warning. An
honourable Aslan takes everything he can hold and keep
but does not overreach himself, nor does he fail to live
up to his potential. An honourable Aslan, therefore, is
boastful to human ears – his boasts show the limits of
his strength and ambition, and show his neighbours how
far they can push him.
Respect even informs how the Aslan conduct their wars.
An Aslan ‘respects’ his neighbour’s territory by taking
as much of it as he can in times of war. Whatever the
neighbour manages to hold onto, however, is sacrosanct.
An honourable man holds everything he can and not a
square inch more or less. Only males can hold territory;
all others are worthy of respect only when they are
associated with a territory-holding male. During the

8

An honourable Aslan keeps to the traditions of his sire
and his sire’s sires. He fights their feuds and helps their
allies. He fights duels fairly and makes war according to
the limitations agreed on by both sides in the presence
of an earleatrais. He keeps his word when he gives it
and obeys the commands of his clan elders.
The third and final pillar of honour is harmony of action,
or khoafteirleao. This is the hardest of the pillars to
master and difficult to even explain to non-Aslan. Of
human beliefs, perhaps zen comes closest. The Aslan
believe the universe is a thought in motion and that
perfect actions can move in accord with that thought.
An Aslan who attained khoafteirleao is expressing the
will of the universe. Khoafteirleao can be reached in any
context or deed but is most commonly found in combat,
poetry or speech.

Feuds

Disputes between families or prides usually take
place because of slights, insults, mistreatments
or problems that have not been resolved to both
parties’ satisfaction. The families may back different
scientific theories; one family member may have won
a competition which the other family had traditionally
won; a family may have rejected a proposed marriage
between it and the other family.
Feuds are an intermediate step between duels
and wars. Strangely for Aslan society, they are
unstructured and lack rituals to control them. If kept
at a low level, a feud is a pretext for discourteous
behaviour and sparks many duels. If allowed to get
out of hand, it involves the vassal prides and families
of each side and can erupt into war.

