CREATING ASLAN

WORLDS
The Military

Each clan maintains its own armed forces to defend
and protect it and many companies own mercenary
forces, which are hired out to clans–or to groups
outside the Hierate–for profit. The necessity for such
forces is demonstrated by the fact that clan warfare
is constant in the Hierate; somewhere there is always
a clan war in progress. Although such wars are formal
and governed by elaborate rituals, they are no less
deadly for the combatants.
External threats to the Aslan are infrequent (the last of
the great Aslan Border Wars ended in 380 Imperial) and
also are handled on the clan level.
One problem Aslan sometimes have is recognising that
non-Aslan are less likely to fight by the strict set of rules
that govern Aslan-Aslan conflicts. Until realised, Aslan
often fight at a disadvantage. When they do recognise
the enemy is not abiding by the supposed rules, Aslan
tend to over-react and begin all-out warfare.

Organisation

Military organisation for the Aslan military places
males in leadership and fighting positions, and females
provide administrative or technical support. Unit
commanders are male, assisted by a female executive.
The commander leads the troops and determines
tactics, while the executive oversees logistics and has
a strong influence over operations through her creation
of battle plans. Maintenance and supply units are
staffed by lower-class males and females. Fighting units
are staffed mostly by males, support units mostly by
females, although there is some crossover. Males of low
social level in combat units have some chance of social
(and hence military) advancement, while those in noncombatant arms have virtually none.

Mercenaries

Mercenary units are typically organised as business
ventures by a female (often as part of a corporation).
The owner, or a female relation appointed to act as
representative of the owner, negotiates tickets and
generally sees to business. This individual accompanies
the unit headquarters and is the ultimate source of
decisions regarding the employment of the unit. In
practice, however, she lets the (male) commander make
the combat decisions, intervening only when the male’s
lack of a balanced viewpoint threatens the best business
interests of the unit.

10

The profession of mercenary is an honourable one,
since there are usually more landless males (lowerclass and ihatei alike) than there are positions in a
clan’s military force. Mercenaries win land, honour
and glory through their actions and females have run
mercenary units as a source of wealth since long before
the Aslan went into space.
Some mercenary units are composed of highly trained
assassins; skilled less in mass warfare than in individual
or small unit combat techniques. These units need
fewer females, since logistics and similar operations
are less a part of a war of assassins. There is nothing
dishonourable about such assassinations, as long as
they are part of a prescribed clan war. Such units
might be comparable to the ninja of Japan but without
the stigma attached to ninja by contemporaneous
samurai society. All in all, however, assassins and wars
of assassins are far less frequent than more orthodox
warfare and military forces.

Language and Naming

All Aslan (with the exception of a few lost colonies) share
a common language and culture. However, this culture is
highly complex and custom-bound, and individual names
and words can become rather unwieldy.
The clan head of an independent clan (vassal to no
other clan) is known simply by the clan’s name; where
differentiation is necessary, the particle ko (himself)
is added. For example, the head of clan Hlyueawi
would be known as Hlyueawi or Hlyueawiko. At the
opposite extreme, an Aslan lower in the social order
(but still a noble) might be named HlyueawifiyAhroay’
ifiyWahtoiLayeauiwahfeaktelihlalikhtyeiteyahahtateisiyu,
roughly meaning, ‘unmarried first son of the third son
of the grandfather of the head of the pride which holds
the valley in the fork of the Iwahfeal River, part of clan
Wahtoi, which is a vassal of clan Aroaye’i, itself a vassal
of clan Hlyueawi.’
Females are named for their husbands, fathers or
brothers, depending on circumstances. Non-nobles
are named for the nobles of whom they are vassals or
clients. Needless to say, while formal or ritual speech
(which is frequent) calls for Aslan to use their full
names, nicknames are commonly used among intimates.
Nicknames usually commemorate some supposed
virtue or achievement and can be chosen and discarded
whenever the holder desires.
In coming up with names or words for Aslan Travellers,
places or things, a simple system for generating random,
Aslan-sounding words is provided. This neatly avoids all

