considerations of syntax and vocabulary. Simply generate
a word as desired and assign a suitable meaning to it,
such as ‘Killer of Ten Thousand’ or, less bloodthirstily,
‘He Honours His Ancestors’ or ‘Place of the North
Wind’. Since Aslan does not translate well into English
(most Aslan words are an entire phrase of meaning,
much like written Chinese ideograms), meanings can
vary considerably. Tehleikhoi is the name of an Aslan
mercenary regiment; it can be translated as ‘Soldiers
of the Falling Night’, ‘Knights of the Setting Sun’, or
‘Warriors of the Evening Star’. There is a great deal of
latitude in the development of Aslan words and names.

Aslan Language

The Aslan common language is called Trokh. Humans
find it difficult to learn but quite beautiful to listen to.
For the most part, Trokh is a lyrical tongue, although
there is the occasional dissonant growl or roar. There
are several dialects of Trokh; all of the major clans have
their own version of the language and Trokh has been
greatly expanded by the females to cover scientific and
economic topics. Common Trokh can be understood by
all Aslan but males are quickly left behind when females
start talking in the technical dialects. A male dialect of
Trokh exists; this is a highly formal language, used in
legal and political circles.

A few ultra-conservative clans preserve older Aslan
languages, such as Trow or Haeto.

Aslan Script

The common Aslan writing system is composed of
hundreds of glyphs called Tao. These glyphs were
originally pictorial, coupled with several symbols that are
clearly derived from claw-marks but have become greatly
stylised. Common sentences can be understood with
knowledge of only three dozen common Tao.
A scientific form of Tao is used by females for technical
purposes. On board an Aslan ship, consoles used by
males will use simplified, traditional Tao, while female
controls will be labelled using the female glyphs to
provide more accurate information.

Aslan Mathematics

The Aslan have four fingers, so they naturally use base
8 mathematics (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 20 and so on). Powers of 8 are therefore nice
round numbers to the Aslan. An Aslan epic poem might
say that 4096 warriors died in a battle or that a warrior
took 64 wounds before dying; these are not precise
measurements but the equivalent of a human saying
10,000 people fought in the battle or that the warrior
took a 100 wounds.

11

