AKUAEUHREKHYEH

(RITE OF PASSAGE)

At the age of 15 (Aslan years), all Aslan Travellers
undergo a rite of passage, the Akhuaeuhrekhyeh. This
rite tests the individual’s fitness to enter society and has
an impact on careers.

Aslan careers, in general, are used in the same way
as described in the Traveller Core Rulebook. However,
there are exceptions, which are noted here.
Note that some Aslan careers are restricted to a
specific gender.

The actual rite is a test that examines the Traveller’s
abilities and qualities, and males and females undergo
different rites.

Ceremonial: The Aslan have a rich cultural heritage.
Those involved in ceremonial tasks occupy a position of
great importance within their clans.

A male Aslan rolls 2D, which is compared to each of his
characteristics apart from TER. A Rite of Passage score
is created by adding +1 for each characteristic greater
than the roll.

Envoy (Males only): Interclan relations are often
entrusted to specific Envoys empowered to arrive at
agreements and commit clan resources. The term
Envoy (rather than diplomat) is used because the
individual represents a clan rather than a government.

Example: Two male Aslan siblings, Hwelryr and Karinvyr
both have the same characteristics: STR 10, DEX 7,
END 8, INT 6, EDU 5, SOC 7. Hwelyr rolls a 6 for his
rite of passage; Karinvyr rolls a 10.
Hwelyr’s Rite of Passage number is +4 (+STR, +DEX,
+END, +SOC). Karinvyr’s Rite of Passage number is +0.
A female Aslan rolls 2D which is compared to INT, EDU
and SOC. A Rite of Passage score is created by adding
+2 for each characteristic greater than the throw.
If doubles are rolled for the rite of passage, consult the
Rite of Passage Events table.

Rite of Passage Events
Roll
1+1

2+2

3+3
4+4
5+5
6+6

18

CAREERS

Event
You are believed to have a great destiny, and
the clan looks for great things from you. You
must excel or disappoint your ancestors. He
gains 1D Clan Shares.
Impressive Performance. You are given Cr5000
as a reward for your exemplary performance in
the rite.
You befriend one of the other young Aslan
undergoing the rite that day. Gain a Contact.
One of the other Aslan undergoing the rite tries
to outdo you. Gain a Rival.
You are wounded in one of the tests, leaving a
distinctive scar across your fur.
I Will Not Fail! Your rite tests you to the limit,
but you are determined not to give in. Gain
END +1.

Management (Females only): Many female Aslan opt
to enter a business-oriented career, rather than
pursuing marriage and family. Such females may
rise to positions of importance within the structure
of various corporations. The career gives a variety
of skills concerned with commerce, finance, and
relations with others.
Military and Military Officer: These careers are
equivalent to both Army and Marine in the Traveller
Core Rulebook. They represent clan military forces
that may be employed in interclan warfare, on
Hierate service, as mercenaries or as adjuncts to a
corporation’s activities where the military force is
needed for security or other purposes.
Males in Military service are fighters or combatants;
females are support personnel. Male Military Officers
are commanders and leaders; females serve as staff
and advisors.
Outcast: Outcast Travellers, for one reason or another,
do not fit within normal Aslan society. Generally
scorned as misfits, they tend to pick up an unusual
assortment of skills; frequently such Travellers will
be more independent but also nurse a fierce desire to
prove themselves and thus rejoin the society that has
scorned them.

