Outlaw: Some Outcasts become Outlaws, travelling
between the stars raiding other clans or other races.
Such activities represent a deviant subculture within
Aslan society; normal standards for male and female
pursuits have broken down to some extent, with each
learning and performing tasks of the other. Pirates, like
Outcasts, privately nurse a desire to return to normal
Aslan society but see little chance for success.
Scientist (Females only, with the exception of Healer):
Travellers involved in the pursuit of the sciences
(whether biological, physical, or social) can become
Scientists. In Aslan practice, most scientists are actually
technicians, adept at the creation of mechanisms to
accomplish specific tasks.
Spacer and Space Officer: These two careers embrace all
forms of interplanetary and interstellar service which
may be carried out by a clan, including operation of all
forms of spacecraft. Thus, the career is similar to both
the Navy and Merchant (and to some extent, Scout)
in the Traveller Core Rulebook. However, members of
this career are strictly concerned with the operation of
ships; a clan vessel involved in trade would also carry
Travellers of a management background for the conduct
of business.
Spacer males are primarily gunners; females are
technicians or support personnel. Male Space Officers
are pilots, gunners, and leaders; females are navigators,
engineers, and staff advisors.
Wanderer (Males only): Many ihatei are given vessels
by their clans and then use them for exploration in the
hopes of discovering new landholds. Wanderers are
much like the Scouts of the Traveller Core Rulebook,
exploring in a lonely, risky way which provides a wide
range of skills but also great chance of disaster.
It should be emphasised that most careers (except
Outcast and Outlaw) are governed on a clan level. The
Hierate has no integrated Army or Navy; individual clans
maintain forces which may be contributed to the service
of the Hierate, or not, as the situation and attitudes of
the clan dictate.

QUALIFICATION

Once a career is selected, the Traveller attempts to
qualify for it. For Aslan careers, the Rite of Passage
score is used as a DM to qualify for all careers except

for Outlaw and Scientist instead of the standard
characteristic check. If the Traveller fails to qualify, they
are immediately reduced to SOC 2 and become Outcast.
If any event during creation indicates the Traveller has
become Outcast, they must either take the Outcast
career in their next term or attempt to qualify for the
Outlaw career. Alternatively, they may instead leave
Aslan space and attempt to become a Rogue or Drifter
from the Traveller Core Rulebook.
After serving at least three terms in a career (other
than Outcast or Outlaw) an Aslan Traveller may attempt
to qualify for another career or assignment using the
standard rules – the Aslan are a more hidebound culture
than the Imperium and expect Travellers to remain in
a single career for some time. Aslan who have spent
time as Outcasts or Outlaws may only attempt to qualify
for other Outcast or Outlaw assignments while in Aslan
space, as their past is too dishonourable to allow them
to enter a more respectable career (such Travellers
may be best served by either leaving Aslan space or
mustering out and starting the campaign).

SKILLS

The Aslan deal with skills primarily on a gender basis
– males feel that some skills are dishonourable and
beneath them; females feel that some skills are shallow
or simply unsuitable. As a result, Aslan perceive and
identify skills as common (available to both sexes),
male (suitable only for males) and female (suitable
only for females).
In addition, there are a few skills that a non-Aslan would
classify as rare (generally unknown or unappreciated
in Aslan society). On the rare occasions that an Aslan
learns a skill inappropriate for his or her gender, that
fact will usually be kept secret; for the fact to be
revealed would be shameful. Further, Aslan society is
rigid enough on the subject of skills that no respectable
Aslan would hire someone for a job that required a skill
inappropriate to the employee’s gender.
At times, Aslan are forced to learn what they consider
inappropriate skills in order to survive. For example, it
is widely known that Wanderers often learn Engineering
on the small ships they commonly use; polite society
ignores this breach of propriety and a former Wanderer
with Engineering skill would never discuss it and never
expect to be hired as an engineer.

19

