Male Skills: Some skills can be learned in Aslan society
only by males. Females consider such skills naturally the
province of males and rarely try to learn them. In some
extreme circumstances, females may learn them but will
almost never admit to it in polite company. Most direct
combat skills are the province of males.
Independence is a uniquely Aslan male skill in that it
indicates the degree to which the male has overcome Aslan
cultural and psychological barriers to the comprehension of
money. Females do not need Independence since they are
not faced with these barriers.
Female Skills: Some skills can be learned in Aslan
society only by females. Males consider such skills
dishonourable for them to learn and will avoid learning
them if at all possible. If they have learned them,
honour forbids them from admitting it.
Rare Skills: These skills may be learned by Aslan but are
extremely rare.
The Aslan Skills table indicate which skills various Aslan
might consider distasteful or unacceptable to learn. The
rare Aslan skills table shows skills that very few Aslan
would learn.
Skills not shown as male, female or rare may be
considered common skills.

Aslan Skills
Males Only
Art (epic
poetry)
Gunner
Heavy Weapons

Females Only
Art (all except epic
poetry)
Astrogation
Broker

Independence

Electronics (all
except sensors)
Engineer
Mechanic
Profession
Science

Leadership
Tactics

Rare
Gambler
Melee (blade)
Melee
(unarmed)

New Skills for Aslan

The following two skills are unique to Aslan.

INDEPENDENCE

The Traveller is capable of dealing with the
concepts of money. In Aslan society, money is
traditionally a female responsibility and males
(particularly upper-class males) rarely understand
such matters, a fact that handicaps them in a
technological society.
Independence is an Aslan male skill, acquirable
only by males; females have no need of it. When
Independence skill appears, males must roll 2D
and score higher than their SOC to acquire the
skill. Independence is a guide governing the
Traveller’s ability to function without supervision.
Lack of the skill indicates no concept of money
at all; the Traveller must be looked after by a
wife or companion who can pay for things and
generally see that he has his financial needs
cared for.
Realising a Price is Extortionate: Average (8+)
Independence check (INT or EDU)
Understanding an Economics Treatise: Difficult
(10+) Independence check (1D x 10 minutes, INT)

TOLERANCE

The Traveller is accustomed to dealing with
non-Aslan and has learned to ignore lapses in
propriety on the part of such persons. It should
also be used to help determine the degree to
which an Aslan is capable of getting along with
others outside of the family, pride, clan and race.
An Aslan without Tolerance is unlikely to be found
in the company of non-Aslan.
In any Aslan’s dealings with others, Tolerance
offsets the negative DM called for under the
reaction rules (see page 9).

AGING

Aslan aging is slower in its onset but more severe in
effects than in human Travellers. The first roll on the
Aging table is not made until age 40 (after six terms of
service have been completed); thereafter, it is checked
every term and twice the Traveller’s number of terms
served is applied as a negative DM to the roll.

21

