RANKS AND BONUSES
RANK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6

—
Junior Envoy
Envoy
Senior Envoy
Respected Envoy
Honoured Envoy
Voice of the Clan

SKILL OR BENEFIT
—
Tolerance 1
—
Diplomat 1
—
Carouse 1
TER +2

MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

A blunder in a negotiation shames you and your clan. You are now Outcast – drop your SOC to 2 and you must
take the Outcast or Outlaw career next term.

3

You fail in a difficult assignment because of the manipulations of another Envoy. Gain him as a Rival.

4

An assassin attempts to murder you. Roll Melee (natural) or Recon 8+ to avoid the attempt. If you fail, you are
injured; roll on the Injury table. If you succeed, you may continue in this career.

5

You are dispatched to a distant world for a long period; by the time you return, your position has been taken by
someone younger and more ambitious. Gain one of Survival 1, Pilot 1, Carouse 1 or Independence 1.

6

A human ambassador insults you. Roll Tolerance 8+ to avoid eating him. If you succeed, you may continue in
this career. If you fail, gain one of the human’s allies as an Enemy.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

Your clan places you in a difficult situation. You can flee if you wish, salvaging something of your reputation but
losing SOC –1. If you stay and fight, roll one of Diplomat, Investigate or Stealth 8+. If you succeed, gain DM+2
to your next advancement roll. If you fail, lose SOC –1 and suffer DM-2 to your next advancement roll.

4

You develop a taste for hunting. Gain Animals (training) 1, Survival 1, Stealth 1 or Athletics (dexterity) 1.

5

You attend a clan council on the homeworld. Gain a Contact there.

6

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain any skill.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Aslan Life Events table.

8

You spend time in diplomatic circles. Roll Carouse or Persuade 8+ to gain an Ally; if you fail, gain a Rival instead.

9

You are insulted by a noble of a rival clan. You may challenge him or her to a duel; if you refuse, lose SOC –2.
If you challenge, roll Melee (natural) 9+. If you succeed, gain SOC +1 and DM+2 to your next advancement
roll; if you fail, lose SOC –2 and suffer DM-2 to you next advancement roll.

10

You are offered membership of a conspiracy in the upper echelons of your clan. If you refuse, gain the
conspiracy as an Enemy. If you accept, roll Deception 8+ or Persuade 8+. If you fail, roll on the Mishap table
as the conspiracy collapses. If you succeed, gain one of Deception, Persuade, SOC +1 or TER +1.

11

You are trusted by the great lords of your clan. Gain TER +2, or gain DM+4 to your next advancement roll.

12

You excel in your role. You are automatically promoted.

