MUSTERING OUT

Aslan receive mustering out Benefits when they leave
the service as normal.

•
•

Kinships

Kinships are secret societies and trade guilds within
Aslan society. A Traveller given membership in a kinship
may ask other members of the kinship for aid, learn
skills or obtain funding for further studies related to
the kinship’s purpose. There are scientific kinships,
engineering kinships, warrior secret schools and so forth.

Pensions

•

•

There is no pension system for Aslan. An old Aslan
should have accumulated Clan Shares to have enough
money to live on.

Cash Benefits

Females, being more skilled in handling financial
matters, may consult the Cash column any number
of times. Males are restricted to consulting the Cash
column no more times than they have levels of the
Independence skill; in addition, males receive only half
the amount rolled for.

Other Benefits

Some Benefits are unique to Aslan.
Brotherhood of Stars: This grand kinship of starfarers
grants the Traveller one free Low Passage per month and
one free High Passage per year.
Ceremonial Kinship: A Traveller who is a member of a
ceremonial kinship gains D3 Allies within the
Aslan hierarchy.
Clan Shares: Aslan Travellers do not receive Ship Shares.
Instead, they receive Clan Shares, which represent
the clan placing an increasing amount of trust in the
Traveller’s abilities and the Traveller gaining more
control over the assets of the clan.
A Traveller may trade Clan Shares for any of the
following benefits. Travellers from the same clan may
combine Clan Shares.

•

Scientific Kinship: A scientific kinship is a school of
experts on a topic. A Traveller who is a member of a
scientific kinship may make a Difficult (10+) SOC check
once per year; if successful, they obtain the use of a
kinship laboratory ship for six months.
Scout Ship: This is as detailed on page 45 of the
Traveller Core Rulebook, but will instead be an Ihateisho
scout ship, as detailed on page 72.
Secret School: A secret warrior school teaches secret
combat techniques. In addition to being part of this
brotherhood of warriors, the Traveller may obtain DM+1
to attack rolls in any one of the following situations:
•
•
•
•
•

44

Cash: A Traveller may trade Clan Shares for simple
cash. Each Clan Share gives the Traveller Cr10000.
Corporation: The Traveller owns an operating
corporation. It has MCr500000 in assets per Clan
Share spent and produces gross profits equal to
1D-5% of its assets per year. The Traveller need not
do anything to administer the corporation but may
become involved if desired.
Favours: Clan Shares can be kept in reserve, and
used to apply political pressure to the clan in the
future. A Clan Share can be spent to acquire a
Contact in the clan’s upper echelons, or turn such a
Contact into an Ally.
Land: This option can only be taken by a male Aslan
with SOC 9+. The Traveller receives a landhold.
Owning lands is the dream of all Aslan males, the
chief ambition which drives them. To determine
the landholding’s quality and size, first select or
generate the world where the landhold is located.
The size of the holding on that world is then
determined based on the number of Clan Shares
invested in the holding. Three Clan Shares grants
TER +1.
Ship Shares: Clan Shares may be converted to Ship
Shares directly on a one-for-one basis.

Melee (natural): When duelling
Gun Combat (energy): After having aimed for at least
two rounds
Gun Combat (slug): After having aimed for at least
two rounds
Heavy Weapons (any): After having aimed for at least
two rounds
Gunner: When engaging a target at Adjacent range

