ASLAN LIFE EVENTS

Outcast Aslan must use the Life Events table on page 44 of the Traveller Core Rulebook, reflecting their
disconnection from Aslan society. All others use the Aslan Life Events table.

Aslan Life Events
2D
2
3
4

5

6
7
8
9
10
11

12

Event
Sickness or Injury: You are injured or become sick. Roll on the Injury table
Birth or Death: Someone close you dies, like a friend or pride member. Alternatively, someone close to you
gives birth (or is born!). You are involved in some fashion (father or mother, pridekin, honour guard).
Territory Challenge: A rival attempts to claim some of your Territory (or your sire’s or mate’s Territory,
if you have none of your own). Make a Diplomat, Broker, Melee (natural) or Gun Combat check and
increase or decrease your TER (or SOC, if you have no Territory) by the Effect of the roll.
Change in Marriage Status: If not married, you are now married (either to an existing Ally or Contact,
another Traveller, or a mate arranged by your clan). If already married, roll 1D. On 1–4, another female
is added to the pride. On a 5–6, your mate is slain. See page 5 for the effects of marriage.
Clan Event: Roll on the Clan Event table.
New Contact: You gain a new Contact.
Clan Event: Roll on the Clan Event table.
Travel: You move to another world. Gain DM+2 to your next qualification roll.
Duel: You are challenged to a duel over a matter of family honour. If you refuse, lose SOC –1. If you
accept, roll Melee (natural) 8+. If you succeed, gain SOC +1; otherwise, lose SOC –2.
Dishonoured: You are accused of a crime. Roll Advocate 8+ or Melee (natural) 10+ to defend yourself (if
you have any Contacts or Allies in the clan, you gain DM+2 to the Advocate roll). If you cannot defend
yourself, you drop to SOC 2 and become Outcast.
Unusual Event: Something weird. Roll 1D.
1. Psionic: You have an encounter with a psionic phenomenon, such as a human psionic institute, a
Zhodani agent or a telepathic plant.
2. Aliens: You travel extensively with non-Aslan. Gain Tolerance.
3. Alien Artefact: You come into possession of a curious piece of alien technology or an
archaeological relic.
4. Amnesia: There is a gap in your memory.
5. Contact with Clan Leaders: The elders of your clan entrust you with a mission or a secret.
6. Ancient Technology: You have an item that is older than the Aslan race.

Clan Events
1D

Event

1

Prosperous Times: The clan acquires new Territories or trade routes. Gain an extra Benefit roll or DM+2
to your next advancement roll.

2

Rising Fortunes: Your clan’s political standing improves. Gain SOC +1.

3

New Ally: A member of your clan rises to an influential position. Gain him or her as an Ally.

4

Feud: Your family is now feuding with another Aslan family. Gain the enemy family as an Enemy.

5

War: Your clan goes to war. If male, you suffer DM-2 to survival rolls next term. If female, lose one
Benefit roll.

6

Hard Times: Your clan suffers economic hardship. You suffer DM-4 to advancement rolls this term, and
gain no Benefit rolls for it.

45

