C E N T R A L

X

S U P P L Y

ASLAN

Aslan equipment is broadly similar to human items. While
the aesthetics are different – Aslan items are bigger and
heavier, and much more likely to include natural materials
like wood, fur or bone, or at least synthetics that resemble
natural materials – both races are physiologically similar
and Aslan borrowed much of their advanced technology
from humanity.
There are obvious differences between items made for
Aslan males and those made for females. Male items, such
as most weapons, are simplified to the point of elegance
(or beyond). A human laser rifle has a wealth of options
and controls, allowing the user to set power consumption
rates, adjust the weapon’s focus, connect the weapon
to different types of heads-up-displays or diagnostic
equipment and conduct field repairs. An Aslan laser rifle
has an on-off switch and a trigger. Nothing comes between
the warrior and his kill. There are no distractions, no fuss,
no pointless female's work – just the kill.
By contrast, female Aslan items have a wealth of
controls and options, and seem overcomplicated or even
deliberately obfuscated to human operators. This is partly
because of the Aslan love for decoration; every item of
worth is engraved, gilded, jewelled or adorned in some
fashion. It also serves to reinforce the cultural bias of the
Aslan that technical topics are the preserve of females.
In cases where an item is designed to be used by both
genders, such as a vehicle, there will generally be two sets
of controls, or else a core control system and a wealth of
secondary controls. In general though, the further one
gets from the core Aslan worlds and the influence of
the Tlaukhu culture, the more the two strands of Aslan
interface design merge – rough colony worlds do not
always have the luxury to accommodate what is essentially
a cultural affectation.
The Aslan have reached TL14 but are well behind the
Imperium in several key fields.

46

C A T A L O G U E

PERSONAL

PROTECTION

Armour is a much more common sight in Aslan society
than it is on human worlds. Most upper-class males will
at least wear ceremonial armour as part of their daily
wardrobe and virtually all military personnel habitually
wear heavier body armour than a human would feel
comfortable in. Aslan armour is always ornately decorated
and includes furs and other natural materials.
Many suits of armour also include full-face masks made to
resemble the features of the wearer or an ancestor. These
masks are a sign of prestige among the Aslan and worn
only by those of high status.
Unless otherwise noted, an Aslan may use his dewclaw
while wearing armour.

