WEAPONS OF THE HUNT

When it comes to firearms, Aslan have many equivalents with slug weapons of the Imperium and other races,
with Hierate-manufactured autopistols, autorifles and submachine guns commonly found throughout Aslan space.
However, the Aslan have developed some weapons that have arisen directly from their culture and history.
The trakhtyaua (laser pistol), triluealikhe (laser carbine) and trolitakheal (laser rifle) are functionally identical to
human models and, indeed, were originally based on borrowed human technology. Only ergonomics to accommodate
differing physiology and cultural bias were changed.
Unless otherwise stated, all the weapons here use the Gun Combat (slug) skill.

A11/58231

YEHEAL AUTORIFLE

This automatic rifle functions much like the human model
and can be equipped with shoulder sling, sights, bipod and
muzzle brake, and may be switched from semi-automatic to
full automatic fire as needed. The yeheal is magazine fed; it
uses a dual magazine feed with an internal mechanism that
strips cartridges from one magazine until it is empty and
then proceeds to strip cartridges from the other. As a result,
the total magazine capacity is a massive 64 rounds and the
weapon can be reloaded with a single new magazine whenever
the remaining rounds are less than 32.

Weapon
Yeheal Autorifle

TL Range
6 275

Damage
3D

Kg
7

Cost
Cr850

Magazine
64

Magazine Cost
Cr40

Traits
Auto 2

Heavy Weapons

Unless otherwise stated, all the weapons here use the Heavy Weapons (man portable) skill.
A11/58231

GRAVITY SPEAR

This weapon is a recent breakthrough by the Aslan and still largely
experimental. It works on the same principle as a gravity plate or repulsor,
projecting a ‘lance’ of gravitational force forward. Anything within the path
of the beam is subjected to a 10G force, pulling it towards or away from the
hlaulrakh. The hlaulrakh’s beam flickers on and off a dozen times a second
and circles around a small area, causing thousands of tears and fractures in
the internal organs of the target. Armour is never counted against the damage
caused by the gravity spear.

Weapon
Gravity Spear

62

TL Range
14 250

Damage
2D

Kg
10

Cost
Cr200000

Magazine
10

Power Pack Cost
Cr2000

Traits
AP Special

