C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

F

I

V

E

HIGH GUARD: ASLAN
Despite outward appearances, Aslan ships use much
the same technology as human vessels and either race
can readily utilise ships belonging to the other with
a minimum of difficulty. However, Aslan do display a
slightly different approach towards ships and this is
reflected in their design.
Aslan have no special regard for luxury and the Hierate
does not have separate High Passage tickets. All paid
passages are Middle, Basic or Low. However, any
Aslan of SOC 9+ will receive the services of the ship’s
steward automatically and the Middle Passage baggage
allowance increases to 500 kilograms. Aslan nobles
always have precedence and usually bump passengers
of lesser standing. Working Passage is common within a
clan but rarely available to non-clan members.
The following are customs within Aslan space.
Space is not Territory: No Aslan male may claim a
region of space. A Traveller need not ask permission to
enter any region of space – but before he puts a single
foot on the ground, he must give all traditional honours
to the landowner.
Clan Hospitality: There is a strong tradition that ‘the
clan takes care of its own’. If members of a Traveller’s
clan live on a particular world, they will offer free
food and lodging and provide a Middle Passage ticket
upon a Difficult (10+) Persuade check. Outcasts or
Travellers who have been Outcasts are not extended
this hospitality.
Referees can determine the presence of an Aslan’s
clan on a world through materials they have previously
prepared; alternatively, roll 10+ on 2D, modified by the
Clan Presence table.

Clan Presence
Condition
Local Population 9+
Local Government type H
Aslan is member of one of the Tlaukhu clans
Per sector distant from the clan homeworld

DM
+1
+1
+2
–1

Swapping Stories: Aslan with time on their dewclaws
enjoy telling stories of their exploits and adventures.
During the long days of a space journey, the passengers
(and crew with no immediate jobs to perform) meet in
the galley or central lounge and take turns telling stories
of what they have seen, what they have done and what
they plan to do.

Participants in these story-swapping sessions gain
acceptance into the group as well as diversion from the
boredom of a long journey. In addition, the stories told
are often the source of further adventures or expeditions.
Decoration: Aslan ships are invariably heavily decorated
with inscriptions and clan heraldry; even control
systems can be decorated with gold, jewels or other
art. Even on military vessels, the Aslan like to decorate
their surroundings.

CREWS

Aslan crew standards vary since there is no central
authority to prescribe the number and type of crew
required. The fundamentals of ship operation mean the
requirements for pilot, astrogator and engineer are the
same as for human ships. Pilots are almost always male;
astrogators and engineers are almost always female.
Stewards are not required. Most properly staffed ships will
include at least one because noble males taking passage
on any ship require the services of one steward per four
nobles and if no proper steward is provided, another crew
member will be co-opted for the position. A well-prepared
ship thus provides a steward in order to avoid losing an
engineer or astrogator at the wrong moment.
Medics are not required either; the position of medic is
filled when the ship’s owner feels it necessary or when
the crew demands it forcefully enough.
Because of the nature of Aslan society and upbringing,
most ships have a male in formal command of the ship
and a female who deals with many details (specifically
finances) that are beneath the male’s dignity. The male
captain is almost always the pilot. On military ships,
the female is the captain’s executive officer, while on
commercial ships, she will be the purser. In both cases,
she may also be the astrogator.
Purser: A merchant ship engaged in commercial activity,
trade, commerce, cargo transport, passenger transport
or charter activity must have a purser. Invariably, the
purser will be female and must have a minimum of
either Admin 1 or Broker 1. The purser is paid a salary
of Cr5000 per month.
The Aslan Crew Requirements table replaces that on
page 29 of High Guard.

