C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

I

THE K’KREE

The K’kree are a race of herbivorous herd-creatures
whose home lies to trailing of the Imperium. They are
quite possibly the greatest threat to the survival of
Humaniti as a species.
The K’kree are sometimes colloquially referred to
as Centaurs, after ancient Terran myth. They have a
quadruped main body and hindquarters, with an upright
frontal torso; well suited to roaming the plains of their
homeworld, their large bodies impede the ability to
carry out highly technical tasks. In particular, the K’kree
are not natural spacefarers as, in addition to their
considerable size and bulk, they are psychologically
dependent on the support of the herd. A K’kree isolated
from its friends will soon go mad with loneliness.
The K’kree are militant herbivores. Millenia of battling
for survival against the predators of their homeworld
has left them with a pathological hatred for what they
call G’naak – meat-eaters or, more properly translated,
vermin. This is how the K’kree view most other species:
inferior, threatening and worthy only of extermination.
K’kree folk tales contain many references to trampling
G’naak under the massed hooves of the herd and they
have taken this manifest destiny with them to the stars.
This makes K’kree rather difficult to get along with,
both on a personal and political scale. They are realistic
enough to realise they cannot exterminate all G’naak
in the universe, not all at once, but that does not stop
them wanting to. K’kree can and do build friendships
with non-K’kree but this is very rare and usually on the
K’kree’s terms. G’naak who have been subjugated and
follow a herbivorous diet are tolerable; everyone else is
somewhere on the to-kill list.
This section contains details of K’kree society and
culture, including their critically important family and
herd structures and presents rules for playing a K’kree
Traveller. In almost all cases a K’kree Traveller will not
be alone; they will be part of a small group which, in
many ways, acts as an individual. There is no ‘hive
mind’ for K’kree but they have such strong family
identity and clearly defined roles that often a family
can be thought of in much the same way as a human
individual… only taking up a lot more space.

X

