Also detailed are K’kree technology, weaponry
and starships. Their unusual physical and social
characteristics require a very different approach to
vehicles and vessels. Nevertheless, they are considered
to be one of the Major Races as they developed the
jump drive independently of all other species.

give it a try anyway, good for them! The Referee should
have no mercy on those who stray from the tenets of
K’kree existence. The K’kree themselves have none, as
we shall see…

The K’kree are very different to other aliens and should
be approached with caution (both in-game and around
the gaming table) as they are utterly inflexible in some
ways and some characteristics can make them hard
to play. As herd creatures, K’kree absolutely must
be close to others of their own kind or they become
distressed and, eventually, insane. A ‘lone wolf’ K’kree
Traveller could conceivably exist with a suitable
backstory but they would have ceased to be K’kree
in the eyes of their fellows and probably could not
function for long between breakdowns.

The K’kree are described by scientists as herbivorous,
homeothermic (warm-blooded), bilaterally symmetrical
hexapods, breathing an oxygen-nitrogen mix. A typical
adult is around 2-2.4m tall and masses about 550kg –
about eight times the average human. K’kree bodies are
covered in thick fur, which is usually grey or black.

This is reflected in K’kree Traveller creation, where a
K’kree gains a family as well as skills and it is the group
rather than the individual that is played. This is open
to exploitation, perhaps using the extra family members
as cannon fodder or to carry out dangerous tasks but
such acts would be out of character for K’kree, who are
instinctively compelled to safeguard and protect their
family and herd. Playing the patriarch of a group of
K’kree rather than a conventional Traveller is a challenge
that should only be attempted by experienced players
who understand what they are getting into.
K’kree are also strict traditionalists who have a
pathological hatred of meat-eaters of all kinds. There
is no flexibility here; meat-eaters are the enemy,
always, and the strict hierarchy of K’kree society must
be obeyed. Travellers are typically characterised by a
desire to ‘do their own thing’, often in disregard for
social norms and rules. Such individualism is something
K’kree just don’t do. There is no such thing as a ‘bit of a
rebel’ in K’kree society; an individual who behaved that
way would be outcast or perhaps just killed as a threat
to the herd – changes to traditional values and way of
life are as big a threat to the K’kree as casualties among
the population – and once outcast would be subject to
the ill-effects of isolation.
K’kree can be played as Travellers but doing so is a
unique experience that requires exploring the mindset
of a totally alien race. That is a rewarding experience
because it is difficult and the Referee should ensure
anyone wanting to play a K’kree family as a Traveller
knows what will be required. It is not a good idea to
allow play of more than one family member unless
the subordinates know they are required to obey in all
things and are willing to do so. If the Travellers want to

PHYSIOLOGY

The two forelimbs end in manipulatory organs similar,
but different in construction, to the human hand. K’kree
‘fingers’ are actually tubes of cartilage, with only the
opposable thumb containing bone. This allows the
fingers to be pulled out of the way for the hand to be
used as a surprisingly effective blunt instrument. The
K’kree hand is highly dextrous but generally weaker in
grip strength than a human hand.
The four rear limbs are proportioned for walking and
end in feet often colloquially referred to as hooves. In
fact the rear feet combine the function of a hoof with a
less dextrous version of their hands. The ‘toes’ (which
are again cartilaginous rather than bony) begin well
short of the sole, allowing them to be retracted whilst
the sole is being used as a hoof. By extending its toes,
a K’kree can improve its ability to feel the ground or
even manipulate objects.
K’kree feet are capable of limited gripping and
significant changes of shape, making them much more
sure-footed in rough terrain than might be expected.
The ability to grip objects with their fees is not sufficient
to manipulate anything complex but it does allow an
item to be held ready in a middle foot whilst the K’kree
stands on the other three and can be used to secure
a K’kree in low gravity. This gives rise to the ability to
rush through a starship or installation with no artificial
gravity, using whatever hand and footholds present
themselves. The effect can be amusing or utterly
terrifying for observers depending on why the K’kree is
moving in such haste.
K’kree have two genders, male and female, and give
birth to live young. Family groups usually comprise a
male and on average four females, with additional nonbreeding family members of both sexes. This family unit
is the building block of K’kree society and has political
as well as social significance. Herds are built up of
multiple families owing allegiance to the herd’s leaders
through layers of sub-leaders.

107

