It is widely believed that the K’kree underwent rapid
evolutionary development as a result of disaster
striking their homeworld of Kirur. A supernova event in
nearby space caused significant ecological and climate
changes, forcing the surviving K’kree to develop in
response. Sophisticated tool use and the ability to
communicate complex plans allowed the K’kree to turn
the tables on the predators that had previously kept their
numbers down. From semi-intelligent herd creatures and
prey for their world’s carnivores, the K’kree became first
warriors and then exterminators.
The social order of the K’kree was established in this
time. The most successful warriors and leaders in the
fight against the carnivores became lords of the K’kree
herds. Since then, physical prowess and charisma
never went out of fashion. Those who can protect a
family and their herd are the most attractive mates and
rise to positions of power according to abilities and
family connections. Weaker individuals are relegated
to the fringes of the herd and are to some extent
considered expendable.
At the same time as the K’kree were evolving
intelligence, at least one carnivorous species on their
homeworld of Kirur was undergoing the same process.
The result was a long period of warfare that stimulated
technological growth on both sides. Although the
K’kree gained the upper hand, their enemies developed
primitive spaceflight technology before their final doom
became apparent. Some were able to escape to Kirur’s
moon where they built a colony. Eventually the K’kree
followed them there and exterminated their foes at last.
The name of this enemy is not known. It seems that
the early K’kree were not content with eradicating them
but wanted to destroy even their memory. Today they
are simply known as G’naak like all other meat-eaters,
although those with a familiarity with K’kree speech
claim to detect a slight change in inflection when this
particular species of vermin are mentioned. Outsiders
refer to the K’kree’s great foe as the Kirrixurians but
generally find it safest not to mention them at all – by
any name – when dealing with K’kree.

SOCIETY

Once they had become the dominant society of their
homeworld and removed the G’naak threat from their
moon, there was less impetus for the K’kree to develop
technology and move away from the free-roaming
lifestyle of their ancestors. Progress did occur but was
balanced by social conservatism in a way that resulted
in cultural features being retained where other species
would have forgotten them. Among these traditions was
the highly complex caste system of the ancient K’kree,
based upon dominance of a leader and value to the

108

herd of an individual. Although at times not well fitted
to interstellar society, this system has survived to the
present day and is unlikely to be altered much by the
passing of time.
The caste system is subtle and contains many nuances
too complex to be understood by non-K’kree but in
broad terns there are four commonly understood
echelons within K’kree society. Only males have caste;
females are casteless until they join the household of
a husband. Outsiders consider casteless unmarried
females to be grouped with outcast males and orphans
in the ‘casteless’ category, although there are many
distinctions – one unmarried female will be treated
differently to another for reasons not immediately
apparent to non-K’kree.
Within casted society, the lowest status group is
generally referred to as ‘servants’ by non-K’kree. The
servant caste includes some actual servants but is
mostly made up of physical workers and those whose
professions traditionally require little or no education.
Thus despite a modern factory worker, functionary or
farmer needing to be highly knowledgeable about their
field, they will belong to the ‘servant’ caste and be
considered of low importance in K’kree society.
Educated professions traditionally formed the
‘merchant’ caste, including scientists, technicians,
administrators and actual merchants. In ancient times
a K’kree needed a certain level of wealth and status
to enter an educated profession, so these positions
became hereditary. Nothing has changed; despite it
possible to provide a good education and chances of
advancement in society, the very idea is ridiculous to a
K’kree. Caste determines caste and other requirements
such as education must be provided to permit the next
generation to maintain their status.
The highest caste is commonly referred to as ‘nobles’
by outsiders and includes military commanders as
well as diplomats, governors and those few who have
transcended the upper boundaries of the merchant
caste. Social mobility in a downward direction is not
uncommon and is a constant threat to any K’kree family
struggling to maintain its status. Upward movement is
much rarer but does happen. Sometimes this is due to a
K’kree emerging as a leader in a crisis or being rewarded
for actions that impressed superiors. Others have
become so successful in their field they have ceased to
be merchants and become nobles. K’kree society has
many wealthy traders within the merchant caste but the
leaders of a major commercial or industrial group will be
nobles rather than merchants. The defining point seems
to be where a K’kree ceases to carry out the function of
his caste and instead commands those who do.

