•
•

•

•

Casteless K’kree are essentially expendable. They
include unmarried females and males who are not
part of a casted household.
Servants serve and support the herd by undertaking
work that may require specific skills but involves
little decision-making and thus no real understanding
of wider issues. The servant caste is sometimes
described using a K’kree word that translates as
those who obey the Steppelord in all things.
Merchants are the backbone of the herd’s economic,
scientific, technical and political life. They are
expected to obey their superiors without question
but know their business sufficiently well as to be
able to carry out orders effectively even in complex
situations. Their title reflects their importance in
K’kree society; it can be translated as those who are
the herd.
Nobles lead and govern. The least important of them
handle specific tasks on behalf of the herd. More
senior nobles lead the herd or represent its interests
in diplomatic relations with other powers. There are
numerous titles for nobles, varying with importance
and specific areas of authority.

Social organisation begins with the ‘little family’,
which can contain as few as half a dozen individuals.
The caste of the family is determined by its dominant
male. Other family members include the male’s wives
and children, with some unmarried males, usually
related to the dominant male. They carry out whatever
functions are required, from drivers and guards to clerks
and workers. There may also be a few unmarried adult
females but normally a female is promised in marriage
to a suitable male before she comes of age and marries
into his family as soon as she is old enough. There
is a little leeway for those who cannot do this due to
circumstances and an unmarried female eventually
becomes casteless and is driven out of her family.
Several little families are usually grouped into a ‘big
family’. Many members will be related to other little
families within the grouping and often it is obvious when

a child is born whose little family she will eventually
marry into. A big family will contain several dominant
males and their close associates, with one of the males
leading the extended family. The caste of a whole
extended family will be the same; big family is the
highest social grouping where this is the case.
Several big families, of differing caste, are organised
into a ‘field-family’ – more commonly referred to as a
herd. A herd will be led by a noble K’kree and supported
by big families from the merchant and servant castes. A
herd might have some casteless individuals associated
with it; these have a nebulous status, not part of the
herd but receiving protection and condescending
support from it. They are likely to be sacrificed in a
crisis and are sometimes referred to as ‘decoys’ or
similar terms implying they are kept around to distract
predators (possibly of a metaphorical sort) from the
herd’s real members.
Multiple herds are grouped into clans, sometimes
referred to as ‘pasture-families’. A clan will have a
dominant noble (clanlord) who rules the clan as a whole,
plus additional noble families who carry out specific
tasks as well as the ruling nobles of the member herds.
A small K’kree city is the modern equivalent of a clan
and will be governed by a clanlord. Larger cities may
contain several clans and will either be ruled by the
most senior clanlord or, if large enough, be considered a
‘plain-family’.
Multiple clans or small cities will be grouped into a
‘plain-family’ led by a senior noble and several such
plain-families make up the equivalent of a K’kree
nation. These groupings are ruled by an individual
known as a Steppelord, with subordinate plain-families
led by nobles holding the title of Lieutenants-ofthe-Steppelord. Above the Steppelords are planetary
governors and rulers of groups of worlds, while above
them stands the Grand Steppelord of the Two Thousand
Worlds, ruler of all K’kree.

K’kree Groupings
Grouping
Little Family
Big Family
Herd
Clan
Plain-Family
Steppe-Family
All K’kree on a given world
All K’kree

Number of K’kree
6–24
100–200
300–800
1000+
10,000+
25,000+, often far more
Possibly millions

Ruler
Dominant Male
Dominant Male
Herdlord
Clanlord
Lieutenant-of-the-Steppelord
Steppelord
Lord-Of-Steppelords
Grand Steppelord of the 2,000 Worlds

109

