Politics between nobles of similar rank can be complex
but all noble K’kree understand the subtle nuances
that dictate their exact place in the hierarchy of nobles.
One Steppelord may rule a far larger area and number
of K’kree than another and will be ranked more highly
despite an outsider potentially not being able to tell
the difference. Attempts have been made by human
observers to assign additional levels of Steppelordship
based on the nature and size of holdings but the K’kree
themselves do not need such things; everyone knows
their place – and everyone else’s place too.

SOCIAL VALUES

The herd mentality is strong in all K’kree and defines
many of their social and cultural values. Their social
hierarchy is so deeply ingrained that few K’kree ever
wonder what it would be like to question authority, let
alone do it. The head of a household is the absolute
master of its members and his superior in the herd
or clan holds absolute power over him. The word of a
distant Steppelord is law throughout his entire domain.
This respect for authority extends to the worship of
ancestors. They are not gods in the usual sense but a
combination of cultural heroes and paragons of how a
K’kree should live their life. The ancestors showed the
present generation how to live and struggled against
great odds to ensure the survival of the species. This is
true throughout all of K’kree history – most families have
favoured ancestors they particularly venerate but respect
all those who came before, right back to the dawn of
K’kree civilisation.

110

K’kree are highly social and cannot function without the
proximity of their kind. They display great hospitality
to strangers, providing those strangers are considered
friendly. Other K’kree almost always fall into this
category, as do some other species. Their property
is subject to an unusual system of family ownership
– which essentially means the family head owns
everything and grants its use to his subordinates – with
varying degrees of communal availability.
It is quite normal for a member of a different family
to simply take items without asking but someone who
failed to return or replace them would be breaking the
social code, which is virtually unthinkable. Likewise,
taking something that is needed or which the owning
family considers ‘not available’ is also a major breach
of social norms. Exactly how outsiders are to know what
is available for communal use and what is not, is a
question that has baffled non-K’kree for many years.
K’kree have a pathological hatred of carnivores and
omnivores who have not converted to a herbivorous
diet. Being an eater of meat means being G’naak and
G’naak are the enemy. There are no exceptions and
there is no tolerance. K’kree can detect faint traces of
pheromones that indicate recent meat-eating, so anyone
who has consumed an animal in the past few days will
experience the ‘G’naak reaction’. This is an instinctive
unease or revulsion, depending on how strongly the
Traveller smells of flesh consumption. Some K’kree can
fail to recognise the cause of their unease and may not
immediately realise they are in the presence of G’naak.
Those that do tend to react violently.

This mentality is in part due to the status of K’kree as
prey animals. Most intelligent species are predators to
at least some extent and have deep-rooted instincts that
tell them they can dominate other creatures. The K’kree
think prey-if-we-let-ourselves-be-prey and are constantly
mindful that if they fail to impose their will on the
universe they will once again become food for G’naak.

A common rule of thumb is to avoid meat products for
30 days before going anywhere near K’kree, although
it is rumoured there are those who can tell if a person
has ever eaten meat. It is not clear if these claims are
true or just an excuse for K’kree zealots to attack anyone
they please.

K’kree responses to problems are thus often rather
extreme. Once a threat crosses the threshold to become
significant then it must be stomped out of existence;
there is no middle ground. An intelligent predator tends
to think – at an instinctive level – in terms of ‘not hungry
right now, no need to do anything until I am’ whereas
the K’kree mindset is more like ‘that thing will kill me
and eat me when it gets hungry, which will happen
sooner or later’. This refusal-of-prey-status mindset was
one of the fundamental changes the K’kree underwent,
and drives their response to almost every situation.

PSYCHOLOGICAL

TRAITS

The following traits are common to almost all K’kree and
should be borne in mind when portraying members of
the K’kree race.
Herd Creatures: K’kree are more than just gregarious. They
quite literally cannot cope with being alone and will suffer
severe mental trauma leading to madness if separated
from others of their kind. The minimum number of K’kree
for comfort is four; any less is not a herd.

