Group Identity: K’kree think of themselves as a member
of a family, herd, clan and so forth, rather than an
individual. Property belongs to the group rather than an
individual. A visit from a K’kree means a visit from his
whole family, which can be two dozen individuals.
Claustrophobia: K’kree are extremely claustrophobic and
cannot stand being confined. Even being in a large room
with the door shut is troubling to them. Their vehicles
and structures are large and open, often with the
capability to retract walls.
Conformity: There is virtually no concept of individuality
or individual worth in K’kree society and little deviation
from social norms is permitted. A K’kree who does not
want to venerate his ancestors and do the bidding of the
Steppelord is worthless and will be cast out from the
herd or even killed.
Veneration of Ancestors and the Environment: K’kree
honour their ancestors with many complex rituals and
are highly respectful of the natural world. They find most
‘planet-taming’ operations at best distasteful (except
the massacre of predators; that is right and proper) and
are moved to anger by construction projects that destroy
beautiful grassy plains.
Conservatism: K’kree are conservative to the point of
being violently reactionary. Traditional dress, weapons
and modes of speech are favoured wherever possible.
K’kree warriors will happily use the latest weaponry but
will like it a lot better if it is styled after the armament
of their forefathers.

Militant Vegetarianism: K’kree view all meat-eaters as
G’naak and there are only three kinds of G’naak – those
that have already been exterminated, those that can
be exterminated in the near future and those powerful
enough that the K’kree must wait for the day they are
strong enough. Interstellar political relations are based
on this concept – every meat-eater in the universe must
be converted to a vegetarian diet or wiped out. Those
that will not change will someday be destroyed but in
the meantime the K’kree must co-exist and perhaps
even cooperate.

DAILY LIFE

K’kree live and work in social groups and although
society has become urbanised the wide plains of Kirur
still hold a spiritual attraction. Cities are usually small,
with dispersed buildings and open spaces between and
if a larger metropolis exists it typically takes the form
of a network of smaller groupings. The arrangement is
similar to the way a herd is made up of multiple selfcontained families and indeed larger communities are
sometimes referred to as herds-of-cities.
Structures in general tend to be low and broad, and
spaced out allowing the horizon to be seen between
them. Greenery is common and enclosed spaces are
built on an open-plan basis as far as possible. K’kree like
natural light, which can be provided by large windows or
retractable outside walls. K’kree need to be able to see,
hear and smell others of their kind and artificial attempts
to create the illusion of a herd have generally failed. Thus
K’kree workspaces tend to be very open and their tasks

111

