designed to allow movement. This is partly for the comfort
of the individual – K’kree evolved from wandering grazers
and do not like being still for long – but also for the
benefit of colleagues. Having a fellow K’kree wander by
from time-to-time is comforting and helps keep workers
relaxed and productive.
K’kree do settle airless worlds and other planets that
require a sealed environment but even with large indoor
parks they find the lack of natural wind and open spaces
to be draining. Society is noticeably more fractious than
on Kirur-like worlds and the situation is even worse
aboard spacecraft or orbital installations. K’kree are
capable of operating these for an extended period but
it is unnatural to them. Whereas humans and other
sophonts have taken to life in space and to some extent
made it their home, K’kree are always out of place away
from the plains of a Kirur-like world.

K’kree Language

The K’kree language, like their society, is wrapped
up in tradition to the point where it changes only
imperceptibly over time. This has advantages; all
K’kree speak the same language with virtually no
cultural drift despite living on worlds dozens of
parsecs apart. On the other hand, K’kree routinely
use archaic phrases in a context that did not exist
when their language was formulated, leading to
sometimes clumsy and roundabout wording. The
introduction of words from other languages is
anathema to K’kree, no matter how much simpler
the situation would be if they are adopted.
The K’kree language includes a number of glottal
stops, clicks and other sounds suited to K’kree
mouthparts but difficult for most other species
to pronounce. This is a source of pride to most
K’kree, who see their native tongue as too good for
anyone but them to use.
The K’kree call their language !xeng’ri but since
most humans and other intelligent species cannot
even pronounce its name, it is typically known
by the title of its commonest dialect. Thus most
humans think the K’kree tongue is named Raxkiir
and may be unaware that this is a dialect of the
true K’kree language.

112

Many daily tasks are performed by robots or semiautonomous machines. K’kree are big creatures,
ill-suited to crawling along an inspection conduit or
undertaking work close to the ground. Thus K’kree of all
castes grow up using robotic assistants and tend to have
an aptitude for it. The exception is those lucky few who
live a traditional lifestyle on a mid or low-tech world.

THE TWO THOUSAND

WORLDS

Today’s K’kree control a large interstellar state,
organised on the same family/herd/herd-of-herds
basis as their ancient existence on Kirur. Segments
of a herd, or a single family group, can be broken
off and dispatched to carry out a task but K’kree are
uncomfortable unless close to their herd and distressed
by any situation where they are not in close proximity
to others of their kind. Thus it is families led by an
individual rather than individuals themselves who
conduct the business of the K’kree and their response to
a situation is often on a very large-scale basis.
The politics of the K’kree race as a whole tend to
reflect their origins. It is a fact of life that the odd herd
member will fall to predators and someone who cannot
protect close family members is of little value to the
herd. However, when it is possible to deal with a threat
or when the herd as a whole is threatened the K’kree will
act decisively, sometimes to a genocidal extreme.
The region dominated by the K’kree is known in their
own language as T't'tkahk Xeng Kirr, which translates as
the Two Thousand Worlds. This is a metaphorical rather
than precise figure; it is not clear how many star systems
the K’kree rule nor how many planets are inhabited
within them. The Two Thousand Worlds is one of the
oldest political entities in Charted Space and one of
the most stable. There have been occasional rebellions
against the Steppelords but these are rare and localised.
Those who might challenge the authority of the Grand
Steppelord are either eliminated or exiled to frontier
regions and reabsorbed into mainstream K’kree society
after a few hundred years or collapse due to internal
dissent. At the present time there is one such group
of major importance – known as the Lords of Thunder
– and possibly other, smaller polities along the fringes
of K’kree space. It is widely thought that these exiled
groups serve a similar purpose in the grand scheme
as casteless males do in a herd – predators will fall on
them first, in which case nothing has been lost.

