THE MILITARY

All K’kree males have an obligation to serve as warriors
for a time upon coming of age. It is usually during
this period that a young K’kree establishes his status
and demonstrates fitness to lead a family or hold an
important position within one. Not all K’kree warriors
serve in the armed forces of the Two Thousand Worlds,
however. Some are taken into the service of a clanlord
or Steppelord where they may be soldiers or bodyguards
depending on the needs of their master.
A K’kree enters his military service at a level determined
by his caste. Servants make up the rank-and-file,
merchants begin training to become low-level leaders
(equivalent to a sergeant or junior lieutenant in human
terms) or provide specialist capabilities. Nobles
are trained to lead or, occasionally, join extremely
prestigious units where every rifleman is the son of a
clanlord. Such forces are expected to routinely perform
legendary actions and tend to suffer high casualties
trying to live up to this expectation.
Units are occasionally formed from casteless males,
usually for near-suicidal operations. This kind of service
is actually desirable to many casteless K’kree as it offers
a win-win situation; either the warrior distinguishes
himself sufficiently that he is elevated into casted
society or he dies in the service of the herd and earns
his place in the ancestor-songs. This is a far better
outcome than lingering on in the misery of ‘walking in
the footprints of the herd’ as the saying goes.
K’kree are large creatures, not well suited to operating
vehicles or engaging in urban combat. They are,
however, excellent infantry (or perhaps a sort of
cavalry). Their quadruped hindquarters provide a highly
stable firing platform for dextrous front arms and their
unassisted movement over open ground is second to
none. K’kree infantry typically use weapons based on
those of the ancient past. Lances are the traditional
armament of the clan warrior and used for more than
ceremonial purposes. Modern versions of the lance are
issued to many warriors, useful in hand to hand combat
but also incorporating a laser rifle. However, traditional
lances are also carried into action, along with a small
shield which is carried on a sling when not in use.

Military Organisation

The organisation of the K’kree military reflects a strange
mix of traditionalism and pragmatic adaptation to the
modern combat environment. The emphasis is on small
groups of warriors on foot earning glory and status by
engaging the enemy at close quarters but given all
possible support with advanced technology.

There is no prescribed organisation in the manner of
more formal militaries but strict traditional precedents
must be followed, which leads by a different route to
a certain uniformity. The lowest level of organisation
is a small force known as a ‘fighting-band’ of 4–10
servant-class warriors led by a merchant-caste leader. A
fellow member of such a band is a friend for life, with
a bond known as ‘sharing grass’, which refers both to
eating together and being laid to rest in the same grave.
Members usually carry a mix of equipment, although any
given band will be biased towards an infantry function
such as close assault, long-range sharpshooting or other
specific battlefield task.
Several bands are assigned to a noble-caste leader and
his immediate retinue, creating a ‘warring-band’, which
is roughly equivalent to a platoon in other militaries.
The warring-band leader’s retinue normally contains
one or more drone operators, who control and direct
robotic fire support platforms. Equipment for doing so is
designed to be used on the move, even at full gallop, so
an entire warring-band can undertake rapid manoeuvres
or a headlong charge at the enemy. Warring bands can
contain up to six or more fighting-bands, with a typical
strength of about 30–40 K’kree and an average of one or
two fire support platforms per fighting-band.
Warring-bands are a near-permanent formation, although
there are no regulations regarding this. Once formed,
a fighting-band and the warring-band it is part of are
bonded and no right-thinking K’kree (which is all of
them, except filthy outcasts) would consider breaking
that bond. Thus rather than being formally designated in
the manner of other militaries, a warring-band would be
recorded and spoken of as ‘the warring-band of Aux!vur,
which is known to favour rapid manoeuvre and correctly
equipped for this style of combat’. Such designations
make operational planning a long-winded and complex
matter but are traditional, and that is far more important
than efficiency.
Joining a fighting-band or a warring-band is an occasion
for great ceremony, for the young K’kree is joining a
family he will leave only upon death – and perhaps even
then he will lie forever beneath the bloody grass with
his comrades. All members of the band share in its
tasks and its fights, its glory and its shame. The deeds
of former members are recalled in tales and rituals, and
there is intense pressure to live up to the legends of
those who went before.
Fleeing a battle, for example, does not merely dishonour
the warrior; it also brings disgrace upon his comrades
and all their forebears. A band whose story ends in
gallant disaster or heroic folly might be remembered

113

