with a certain condescension but a band that collapses
in surrender or panic undoes all gallant deeds of the
band right back to its formation. The ultimate disgrace
is to be brought before the warleaders for dissolution of
the band. Most warriors would beg to be allowed to stay
together and undertake a suicide mission to salvage the
honour of their forebears, even if their own is forfeit.
‘Redemption-bands’ of this sort are useful as shock
troops or cannon fodder, although wise commanders
are more likely to use them as rearguards in a retreat
or to carry out missions from which no retreat is
possible. The use of such troops has given rise to the
K’kree reputation for mindless fanaticism, although the
motivations of the warriors involved are more complex.
A redemption-band might be sent well forward to trip
a suspected ambush, identify a minefield or similar
hazard in the most basic manner possible, or clear a
path through mines and obstacles with their bodies.
Alternatively, they may be ordered to strike at a target
that could not be reached by troops who hoped to
get out again. Their ferocity is legendary and their
tenacity goes beyond that of even the most motivated
conventional soldiers.

Higher Formations

A number of warring-bands will be grouped together
as a battle-force under the command of a more senior
noble-caste officer known as the battling-captain.
Such formations are more fluid than warring-bands
and fighting-bands, and may eventually be broken
up, but some battle-forces have existed for centuries,
rejuvenated by new warring-bands or replacement
personnel. The personal retinue of the battling-captain
will contain additional support personnel and vehicles
plus a few attached small units providing additional
capabilities, enabling the battle-force to function as a
self-contained combat unit.
Most situations do not require much more than a
battling-force, although sometimes more than one
battling-force will be deployed to an area without an
overall commander or higher formation. In this case
precedent, tradition and the reputation of the forces
involved will determine which battling-captain directs
the efforts of the others.
Larger formations are formed at need and dismantled
again when their task is over. A campaigning-force might
be built out of several battling-forces and kept together
as a garrison or on-call formation for some years.
Additional support in the form of artillery, vehicles and
attached forces may come and go in that time but the
core units of the campaigning-force will, by tradition,
remain together as long as feasible.

114

It is not uncommon for a campaigning-force to be held
ready as a placeholder, at need gaining additional
supports and undergoing rapid expansion into a higher
formation such as a warring-force. Such formations are
normally assigned to a higher commander, providing
an immediate response capability and framework for
the integration of additional units. They also provide
administrative services for support units, which can
create a situation where a campaigning-force goes to
war with artillery and specialist supports that would
normally be assigned to several such formations. K’kree
commanders are quite happy with this; overkill is more
commonly a goal than a flaw.
Large formations are only put together for major
wars and tailored to the needs of the region or (more
commonly) dictated by what is available. Two or more
campaigning-forces under the command of a warringcaptain creates a warring-force roughly equivalent
to an Imperial brigade. Two or more warring-forces
commanded by a great captain are known as an
exterminating force. The (very) rough equivalent of a
division, an exterminating force armed with advanced
weapons is capable of subjugating a lower-tech world
and slaughtering its predators.
If the need arises, a lord captain will assemble a
‘grand force’ for a major campaign. Lord captains and
the grand captains who stand above them also have
responsibility for the security of an area – typically
several minor star systems or part of a major world – and
exert authority over lower-level commanders in their
area of responsibility. There are often no intermediate
leaders between a lord captain or grand captain (or
more commonly, his staff) and a lowly battling-captain
responsible for securing a city on one of the worlds
in his area of influence. The grand captain has the
authority to build higher formations at need, assigning
commanders and support formations as he sees fit.
In general, political leaders are empowered to appoint
military commanders to a level appropriate to their
own rank and may appoint themselves or another
individual (often a younger brother or trusted relativeby-marriage) to the post. Thus a herdlord or clanlord
may appoint battling-captains to command his forces if
he is able to raise enough troops or is assigned them.
Steppelords can appoint commanders up to the rank of
great captain but only the Grand Steppelord of the Two
Thousand Worlds can legitimately appoint lord captains.
However, this authority is often delegated as a token of
trust. Appointing a lord captain without the approval of
the Grand Steppelord, or raising a force that required
command by a de facto lord captain, would be seen as
an act of rebellion.

