Formations

K’kree often use a five-part formation in military
operations. It is equally applicable to a large
ground force or warring-band on the march and
is based on the ancient defensive formation used
by herds on Kirur.
The Head can be considered the vanguard of a
herd or force. It contains the best warriors and
most potent direct-fire weapons. The force or
herd leader is normally located at the rear of the
‘head’, well forward to make decisions on the
march or direct an initial encounter with hostiles.
The Body marches behind the head, separated
by a short distance. The body of a herd contains
most of the non-combatants and a contingent of
guards to protect them. In a military context the
body is made up of the majority of fighting troops.
The Loins is the rearmost of the three main
force components. In a marching herd it would
contain some non-combatants and a force of
warriors acting as a rearguard; in a military force
it contains heavy weapons such as artillery and
logistics assets such as supply vehicles. A small
rear-cover force is always assigned.
The Hands are two flanking/screening forces
moving ahead of the main force and out to the
sides. The Hands conduct reconnaissance and
foraging, and are expected to contact the enemy
and find out their dispositions.
When a force deploys from its marching order
the usual system is for units from the body to
spread out and move up to support the hands,
which acts as a screening force to cover the
deployment. The head deals with any immediate
crisis then holds position to become a powerful
reserve under the command of the force leader.
The loins deploy heavy weapons, bring logistics
assets into a defensive position and sets up a
security element to the rear. Once deployed, the
loins component becomes a pivot and backstop
for manoeuvres of the main body. In a force
without encumbering heavy weapons the loins
element is usually small but can sometimes
contain a fair-sized body of troops as a reserve
to be committed wherever necessary – or cover a
retreat if things go badly.
An aggressive enemy can be drawn onto the
deployed body by the screening hands. If the
enemy is disinclined to attack, the hands seek
out weak points for the main body to assault,
with elite warriors of the head held ready to
deliver the finishing blow to a wavering enemy.
Many variations on this basic tactic exist, all of
which have a traditional name and long history
of success.

116

K’kree infantry are armed with personal and light
support weapons, favouring lasers over projectile
weapons. Infantry are supported by vehicles and
artillery, much as in any armed force. However, the
K’kree make extensive use of drones and robotic combat
devices rather than crewed vehicles to carry their heavy
weapons into action. These platforms typically mount air
and missile defence weaponry to offset the vulnerability
of personnel operating in the open to air-bursting
artillery munitions.
Vehicles are large and make easy targets but their
critical systems are heavily protected to offset this.
K’kree vehicle crews are exposed to severe psychological
stress on a constant basis, as combat vehicles combine
isolation from all but a handful of other K’kree with
confinement in a small (by K’kree standards) space.
Where possible, forces are supported from orbit and
make only limited use of vehicular transportation in
the face of the enemy. For groundside logistics, opentopped or open-sided vehicles are favoured, often with
retractable armoured sections to protect the occupants
at need.

Ground Combat Tactics

All K’kree infantry dream of taking part in a massed
headlong charge and sweeping their enemies before
them. More commonly, they skirmish in small groups,
much like low-tech light cavalry using horses or similar
riding animals. Groups tend to be loosely organised on
the battlefield but still highly cohesive, as a mini-herd
beset by G’naak must be. This is the environment where
K’kree footsoldiers are at their best; a fluid situation
where aggression and teamwork can overcome almost
any foe.

Space Forces

Some Clanlords and Steppelords have their own
private space forces but most military ships in the
Two Thousand Worlds are built in a small number of
specialist yards, using the best technology available. The
majority of warships are constructed to TL12 standards
and are similar in many ways to vehicles and buildings.
K’kree warships are extremely wasteful of space by
human standards but this is necessary to accommodate
their large bulk and need for open areas. Most warships
are designed to deploy or control robotic subordinate
craft, either as crewed ‘herdmasters’ controlling a group
of similarly sized robotic craft or acting as a carrier and
tender for large numbers of semi-autonomous robot
fighters. These are piloted remotely from the carrier,
by drone pilots who translate the cooperative instincts
of the herd-protector into a three-dimensional space
combat environment.

