This approach to space warfare is inefficient in some
ways but K’kree warships are built to be tough and
survivable and can often escape a losing battle by
fleeing behind a screen of expendable robot craft. As
communication lag becomes an issue or if the parent
vessel jumps out, robot craft go over to one of several
pre-set tactical patterns. These are sophisticated but
predictable, which usually makes defeat inevitable.
However, once in autonomous combat mode the robotic
craft are considered already lost and always tasked with
causing as much damage to the enemy as possible with
no regard to survival.
This has led to a deliberate ‘throw down’ combat
technique whereby K’kree carriers launch their fighters
at the enemy, do as much damage as possible under
direct control and then abandon them to fight on whilst
the carrier withdraws to reload more craft. At need,
the carriers themselves can be expended – losses
are unimportant so long as the threat to the herd is
eliminated and crews will obey an order to fight to the
last if necessary. This willingness is often mistaken for
fanaticism but in truth it is a facet of the K’kree psyche.
Life is worthless without the herd and dying to protect it
is preferable to being cast out for disobedience or seeing
the herd destroyed.

Most K’kree warships are large for their role and tend
to be well-armoured at the expense of manoeuvrability
and even firepower. Internal compartmentalisation is
generally poor, due to the need for large crewmembers
to move around and maintain physical contact with one
another. Coupled with the difficulty of getting such a large
creature into a vacc suit quickly, this makes K’kree ships
more susceptible to damage than those of other species.
As a result, K’kree naval architects favour standoff
weapons such as missiles and remote-controlled
fighter craft. Not only does this permit an enemy to
be engaged before it can close to decisive range but
a ship that is shooting at missiles and fighters is not
putting holes in the parent vessel’s hull. Some observers
have suggested that faster and more lightly armoured
vessels would be better suited to this style of combat,
enabling them to stay at long range, but there is no sign
of a move towards such designs. This is partly due to
the difficulties of producing a large vessel with enough
thrust to be an agile combatant and partly because
K’kree ships have always been built this way.
For short-ranged combat K’kree prefer large, powerful
weapons mounted in bays and barbettes rather than
turrets. Turreted weaponry is mounted on most ships

117

