comes a duty to protect the herds of others by detaching
segments of the fleet and either loaning them to other
Steppelords or deploying them to carry out a particular
task under a trusted leader. The curious status of these
leaders, known as lords-of-the-outer-steppe, is such that
there is no embarrassment or dishonour in having their
forces assigned for protection.
The upshot of this system is that every region of space
occupied by K’kree has local forces tied to particular
areas, often on a patchy and inefficient basis, whilst
task forces and fleets loyal to the lords-of-the-outersteppe conduct major naval operations either under their
own commanders or in conjunction with local leaders.
Naval forces typically follow an organisation similar to a
ground combat formations, with a head, body, loins and
hands. There is more leeway in terms of dispositions,
since naval forces operate in a complex threedimensional battlespace but the general organisation of
a force will follow the pattern. Ships are not assigned to
squadrons and fleets like those of the Imperium; they
are assigned to leaders who organise them as necessary
using layers of command and organisation.
A ‘significant vessel’ means any ship with respectable
combat capability, including relatively small patrol
and escort ships. Ships in the cruiser class are rarely
assigned to formations smaller than a herd of the outer
steppe, whilst the big line-of-battle ships are assigned at
the clan level. There are exceptions, of course; a single
major or even capital ship may serve as the flagship of
quite a small force if appropriate.
The capability of vessels generally increases alongside
the size of formation they are assigned to. Since most
major K’kree warships carry a complement of robotic
fighters and can thus provide their own close escort,
there are relatively few ships optimised for the escort
role. This leads to the deployment of all-big-ship forces
at times, with smaller vessels operating elsewhere as
scouts or security elements.

A HISTORY OF THE TWO

THOUSAND WORLDS
To the K’kree, the history of their interstellar state –
the Two Thousand Worlds – is the history of all K’kree.
Occasionally a Steppelord has led his people out of the
Two Thousand Worlds and colonised a far-off region but
as far as the official histories go these groups became
irrelevant as soon as they moved beyond easy contact
range. Those that reject the Great Steppelord’s authority

and turn their backs on the great herd of the K’kree
are no longer part of its history unless they return as
enemies or come home to beg re-inclusion.

The Distant Past

Creatures that are recognisably ‘proto-K’kree’ appeared
on Kirur around 10 million years ago. They are thought
to have begun developing intelligence in response to
ecological disasters caused by a supernova event and
by 10 million years before the present were tool-using
cooperative animals. It is not clear when the K’kree
developed full sentience.
The Ancients are known to have seeded humans and
other creatures across Charted Space around 300,000
years ago. By this time, behaviourally modern K’kree
existed on Kirur. They were engaged in a constant fight
for survival against their homeworld’s predators, a fight
that might have remained stalemated forever but for
climatic changes that began over 100,000 years ago.
Little is known outside the Two Thousand Worlds about
what tipped the balance but the stalemate was broken
and the K’kree declined in number.
It is thought that destruction of habitats affected other
prey species more than the K’kree, who were able to
plan ahead and move great distances to viable areas. As
other sources of food were predated to extinction, the
carnivores of Kirur targeted the K’kree. Legends speak of
a ‘shadowed time of nightmare’ from around 100,000 to
30,000 years ago, during which the K’kree fought a war
against extinction.
The first K’kree cities were constructed around 80,000
years ago. These were initially more like defended
laagers where the K’kree could rest and care for their
wounded but over time developed into true cities with
workshops, storehouses and administrative complexes.
Despite the security these new cities offered, the K’kree
still almost became extinct. What saved them was a
combination of desperate effort and scarcity of food for
their enemies. The surviving K’kree were hard targets
and could retire to their laagers, living off stored food,
when predators concentrated in their area.
It may be that confinement imposed by such sieges
was the worst of the ‘nightmare’ referred to in legend,
especially since herds were cut off from one another and
at times did not know if their neighbours had survived.
K’kree scouts might come upon a broken laager, with
nothing but the bones of their kind bleaching in the
sun. It was in this time that the desire to exterminate all
G’naak became a driving force in the K’kree psyche.

119

