The Time of Shed Blood

The war for Kirur teetered one way then the other for a
time but as predator numbers fell the surviving K’kree
were able to push out from their laager-cities, linking
together multiple herds and engaging in sweeps to clear
all predators from a region. By -30,000 what had begun
as a small-scale security operation had expanded into a
crusade to eliminate all meat-eaters on Kirur. It is today
referred to as the ‘time of shed blood’.
The K’kree were not the only intelligent species on Kirur
at that time. A race of carnivores had also developed
intelligence and the ability to use tools. It is not clear to
what extent the war between the two species followed
the conventional pattern. It may be that the carnivores
preferred easier prey or had reservations about eating
sentient people. They may have tried to make peace
or even cooperate with the K’kree but were driven into
remote areas nonetheless.
The K’kree almost certainly took the view that an
intelligent species of predator would sooner or later
plunge them back into their time of nightmare. The

120

answer was obvious; break strongholds one–by–one and
exterminate the threat. The most remote predator cities
proved hard to access and the predators themselves
underwent a rapid technological explosion as they fought
for survival. At some point they began an incredible
endeavour; an evacuation to Kirur’s moon.
The evacuation was a slow process, undertaken with
primitive craft but it went on for centuries as cities fell
one–by–one. By the time the last was overrun a large
population were dwelling on Kirur’s moon, unknown to
the K’kree whose technology had lagged far behind.
K’kree written records began around -10,000 and initially
contain no references to these predators. It is likely that
the K’kree thought them defeated and gone forever.

The Unification of Kirur

The cities of Kirur gradually expanded and became
permanent homes as well as trade hubs for herds
following a more traditional lifestyle. A habit of
cooperation grew into the rudiments of a world
government by -8175, and around 1,000 years later

