K’kree society reached a recognisable version of its
modern form. This was the result of the ‘Law of Reason’,
a philosophical and ethical system, which to this day
forms the basis of modern K’kree thinking.
Progress continued and by -4305 the K’kree had fully
unified Kirur under a single government. By this time
they were aware of the predators living on their moon
and the introduction of grav vehicles in -4228 made a
renewed war of genocide feasible. The carnivores had
prepared for centuries and the fight was a hard one with
many setbacks. However, by -4167 the last fortress was
destroyed and the entire species exterminated – for real
this time.
Renewed conflict with the predator species led to
the enunciation of the Axavktrr!xur or ‘Fundamental
Principles of Survival’, which amounted to a declaration
that all carnivorous species that would not or could not
convert to vegetarianism would be eliminated. Whilst
making perfect sense from a K’kree point of view, this
was a declaration of war – to a genocidal degree –
against almost every intelligent species in the cosmos.

Early Expansion

The K’kree expanded throughout their own star system,
developing robotic systems for extracting resources
from difficult environments and building outposts to
operate them. The invention of the jump drive in -4142
permitted exploration of nearby star systems, where
the K’kree were not surprised to discover carnivorous
species on worlds they wanted to colonise.
Small bases were built on low-value worlds to facilitate
expansion but the K’kree wanted Kirur-like planets
where they could roam outside without artificial
assistance. In almost all cases they had to fight for
them, although usually against animals that stood no
chance when energy weapons and artillery were brought
to bear. The extermination of carnivores on a whole
world was a lengthy undertaking, undertaken on a
cordon-and-sweep basis. More efficient methods were
available but the K’kree were unwilling to damage the
natural environment; habitat destruction or tailored
plagues were used only as a last resort.
The K’kree encountered a few sentient species but none
that could resist an assault by their armed forces. Those
willing to accept K’kree rule were permitted to live,
albeit under strict supervision. Those that tried to fight
were exterminated.

Contact with the Hivers

The K’kree contacted their first major interstellar
power in -2045, although they did not at the time
realise what was happening. The first worlds of the
Hive Federation they attacked were assumed to be just
like any other G’naak-infested planet, although it soon
became apparent that they were linked by starships and
possessed advanced technology. This in no way deterred
the K’kree – indeed, it may have spurred them to greater
efforts – and they launched a campaign of destruction
and conquest against the Hive Federation.
The war formally began in -2029. At that time the
Hiver fleet was little more than a security force and
unprepared for the onslaught of the K’kree. Losing many
battles, the Hivers were pushed back deep into their
territory and might have faced total defeat.
According to the Hivers, they undertook a masterwork
of Manipulation – with a capital M. The Hivers pride
themselves on their ability to manipulate others, with
specific Manipulations recorded in the same way as
great victories in war by other species. The Hivers claim
they demonstrated to the K’kree that they could, at
will, manipulate K’kree to become G’naak, creating a
taste for meat, and they were willing to do so on a grand
scale. In this version of events the K’kree fled Hiver
space in terror, proving that Hiver manipulation was
more potent than all the battlefleets in space.
The K’kree version is vague and couched in terms that
suggest it would be unwise to ask further. The overall
impression is that a combination of the fighting power of
Hive Federation member races and underhand tactics by
the Hivers themselves necessitated a withdrawal, which
made possible a truce beginning in -2103. A change in
K’kree philosophy permitted the truce to become more
or less permanent.
The Hiver-K’kree war resulted in the overturn of the
Fundamental Principles of Survival, although the Law
of Reason remained intact. In short, not all G’naak had
to be exterminated immediately and if the cost to the
herd of destroying an enemy was too great then it was
not in the interests of the K’kree to make the effort. This
attitude has been paraphrased by outsiders as ‘we’re
going to destroy all the G’naak sooner or later but those
ones are too much trouble right now’.

121

