Contact With Humaniti

Although modern K’kree society can seem extreme,
given open threats of extermination towards all meateating species, it is a more moderate version of their
original philosophy. Co-existence with G’naak has been
possible since -2013, although it is uncomfortable for
all concerned. This was just as well for the first humans
who met the K’kree, in -200.
Before the Long Night, humans from the Vilani
Imperium and the Rule of Man had colonised worlds
as far out as the Gateway and Crucis Margin sectors,
making contact inevitable at some point. The first
known contact was between personnel of the Galastrian
Metals corporation, based out of Tharver in the Gateway
sector. This produced no new trade opportunities and a
great deal of friction, as the K’kree had little interest in
conducting commerce with vermin.
The human states close to the Two Thousand Worlds
were mostly small multi-planet polities, corporations or
single-world governments and posed little threat to the
K’kree. However, once scouts from the emerging Third
Imperium arrived in the region the situation changed.
Formal contact was made in 103 and the K’kree quickly
became aware that this was an empire that might rival
their own.
The spinward frontier of the Two Thousand Worlds
remained troublesome. The small states of Gateway
included several pirate kingdoms whose raiders were
quite willing to prey on K’kree vessels. At the same time,
the Two Thousand Worlds was reaching the maximum
size governable under its system – and the K’kree had
no interest in changing. Thus interaction with humans
was limited to the occasional punitive expedition.

The Lords of Thunder

The antics of the G’naak in Gateway and along the
frontiers caused considerable alarm and voices began
to demand a return to the Fundamental Principles of
Survival. This was an unusual level of dissent for the
Two Thousand Worlds, prompted by a feeling that sooner
or later hungry humans would come trailingwards in
force. Better to act now; sterilise their worlds if they
could not be taken and create a zone where no G’naak
could find sustenance, as the K’kree of old had done
when in desperate need.
Eventually dissent became focussed on a leader named
L’lluii!pri’vguurlg, who embodied the Fundamental
Principles and questioned the authority of Steppelords
who would not embrace them. L’lluii!pri’vguurlg formally
declared a return to the Fundamental Principles – on

122

behalf of the whole K’kree species – in 874, a challenge
that could not be allowed to pass. In 885 he and his
followers were exiled from the Two Thousand Worlds.
L’lluii!pri’vguurlg and his people founded
Xuruk’xaar’keer!, which roughly translates to Anglic
as Lords of Thunder. They set up a powerbase on the
fringes of human space, which is sometimes known
as the Xuruk Empire and more commonly as the Lords
of Thunder. This removed the Lords of Thunder from
the official histories of the Two Thousand Worlds. They
appear there only when they do something that affects
mainstream society but it is notable that their own
histories include everything they know about affairs
within the Two Thousand Worlds. The implications of
that are worrying to human and K’kree alike.

THE TWO THOUSAND

WORLDS TODAY

The Two Thousand Worlds is one of the most powerful
and – in some ways at least – unified states in Charted
Space. In practice, the Steppelords are prone to internal
politics. Some will push the boundaries of tradition
and their orders from the Grand Steppelord of the Two
Thousand Worlds in order to increase their status. Others
will conspire against rivals out of disapproval of the way
they push those boundaries. Any significant threat will
cause those involved to shelve their schemes, however,
partly for the good of the K’kree as a whole and partly
because the Grand Steppelord does not tolerate those
who put their own agenda ahead of his orders.
The majority of K’kree worlds are within the TL7 to
TL11 range and thus capable of playing an active part
in the interstellar economy. However, this technological
capability refers to the cities. On worlds with a
‘shirtsleeve’ environment there will always be a segment
of the population living a simpler life on a semi-nomadic
basis. These herds make use of advanced technology but
cannot produce it. They wander within large preserves,
more or less following – and thus preserving – the ancient
lifestyle of the K’kree of Kirur. Laager-towns exist within
these preserves, offering comfort when desirable but
allowing the herd to camp in the countryside.
The K’kree name for their state is T’t’tkakh Xeng Kiir,
which is normally translated as ‘Two Thousand Worlds’
but can also be rendered as ‘the universe’ or ‘the night
sky’. The latter is a reference to the stars that could
be seen from Kirur’s surface at night and the former to
the fact that nothing really matters outside of K’kree
dominions. There is no literal meaning to Two Thousand
Worlds; it is a figure of speech only. Usually it is applied

