to the area directly ruled by the Grande Steppelord but
there are also outposts, client states and enclaves that
are not contiguous with but considered to be ‘of the Two
Thousand Worlds’.
The Two Thousand Worlds and outlying territories are
linked by a large merchant fleet. Some vessels are
owned and operated by Steppelords whilst others are
private. Numerous organisations exist that can be
considered a parallel to the merchant shipping lines
found in other states but they tend to be the property
of noble families rather than corporate bodies in their
own right.
Some worlds have non-K’kree populations, all of
whom are required to follow a herbivorous diet. Many
indigenous sentient races within the Two Thousand
Worlds were exterminated and those that remain know
their place – and are well aware of what happens if
they defy the authority of the Steppelords. Rebellions
are few and always short and external aid is almost
never available to these species. Indeed, many of them
are entirely unknown to other races outside the Two
Thousand Worlds.

The Lords of Thunder

The Lords of Thunder are the best-known of K’kree
splinter groups, not least because their home region is
close to human space. Upon their exile in 885, they
moved into Luretir!girr sector and conquered a region to
use as a powerbase. Expansion thereafter was slow but
steady, gradually absorbing more worlds and doing away
with their carnivorous inhabitants.
The expansion of the Lords of Thunder eventually
increased in pace. Outside observers believe this was
a result of early-conquest worlds reaching economic
and social maturity and becoming capable of funding
additional expansion. Encroachments into Gateway
have brought the Lords of Thunder to the attention of
Imperial officials, although at present a large buffer
zone still exists.
Although firmly committed to the eventual extermination
of all G’naak, the Lords of Thunder are willing to
undertake peaceful diplomacy and trade. The matter-offact way they refer to eventually wiping out the people
they are trading with can be unsettling but their money
is still welcome in ports across the region. Incidents are
not uncommon however, as the Lords of Thunder are
utterly inflexible in their outlook and intolerant of many
behaviours considered normal elsewhere.

123

