There are three degrees within each social rank:
Servant-of-Rankholder: This is the default level. Distant
relatives and those bound by ties of loyalty rather than
kin hold this rank.
Kinsman-of-Rankholder: This represents close relatives or
those who have served long and well, and are thought of
as almost-kin.
Rankholder: The K’kree actually holds this rank.
When a K’kree achieves a new social level, he begins
at servant-of-rankholder. Each term he may make a
Patriarchy check at the difficulty level indicated on the
SOC Rank table to be elevated one degree. Note that
increases in SOC are rare for K’kree, so elevation within
the Traveller’s starting social class is normally the only
advancement possible. If a K’kree does rise in social
class, he begins again at servant-of-rankholder level but
gains DM+1 on Patriarchy checks for advancement if he
was a kinsman, or DM+2 if he was a rankholder.
The exception is the lowest end of the nobility spectrum;
patriarch of a small family. A K’kree holding this rank is
automatically the head of his household and therefore
the rankholder. At all other levels, the assumption is
that the rankholder is the head of the big family of
which the K’kree’s small family is part. Thus a servantto-rankholder in a Merchant caste big-family heads one
of the lowest-status small-families within the group
and can aspire to being elevated to kin-to-rankholder
someday. After that, he might even come to lead the
whole big family, as head of his own household and lord
over several others.

SOC Rank
SOC
0
1-3
4-6
7-10
11

13
14

Caste
Outcast or casteless
Lowest Value Servant
Servant
Merchant
Noble (Small Family
Patriarch)
Noble (Big Family
Patriarch)
Herdlord
Clanlord

15

Steppelord

12

Patriarchy
Check Difficulty
Simple (+2)
Easy (+4)
Routine (6+)
Automatic
Average (8+)
Difficult (10+)
Very Difficult
(12+)
Formidable
(14+)

K’KREE TRAITS
K’kree make use of the following traits.

Big and Tough: K’kree are much bigger than humans
and can soak up a lot more damage unless a vulnerable
location such as the head is struck. Whenever a K’kree
is subject to an effect that reduces END, whether
through physical damage or exertion, END reduction
is halved, dropping any fractions. For example, a
K’kree who is hit for seven points of damage reduces
END 3 points. END is also treated as being doubled
for the purposes of determining the duration (but not
effectiveness) of physical activity.
Claustrophobic: K’kree are intensely claustrophobic and
will often refuse to enter fully enclosed spaces. If forced
to do so, or upon discovering they are confined, a K’kree
may panic or collapse. A Difficult (10+) END check is
required to enter a confined space. Small spaces like a
starship stateroom impose DM-2 and very tight spaces
like a crawlway impose DM-4.
A K’kree who fails the check will not enter, no matter
what. If already in the confined space, they will wriggle
out with no regard to whom they squash. If this is not
possible, roll 1D . On a 4+ the K’kree will freeze in
place and refuse to move, or else will begin to thrash
about in a panic.
New claustrophobia checks are made every time the
K’kree encounters something unsettling or is hurt.
Noises up ahead or something as minor as snagging a
piece of clothing on a projection can trigger a psychotic
episode – which in turn can make it very difficult to help
a trapped K’kree.
A K’kree leader may make a Difficult (10+) Patriarchy
check to lead his family or warband into the space,
provided he passes his own END check first.
Gregarious: K’kree need others of their own kind
around them at all times. A K’kree deprived of such
companionship is likely to flee towards the nearest herd
(or wherever he thinks a herd could be found) or become
either violently agitated or all but catatonic. If a K’kree
is cut off from others by a confined space the effect is
intensified and checks for both claustrophobia and lack
of contact must be made. Failing both will lead to a
mental breakdown which may have long-term effects.

125

