A K’kree suddenly deprived of company must make
an Average (8+) END check to cope in the short term,
with a DM of anything up to –6 if the incident is very
violent. For example, a K’kree who sees his family hit by
a speeding truck is likely to flee in panic immediately
and suffer long-term effects when he realises he will be
forever without them. A Effect of –6 or worse indicates
permanent madness that may or may not be treatable.

A K’kree who is kin-to-the-sky needs no herd around
him because his ancestors walk beside him. They also
convey their wisdom, which may or may not make sense
to anyone but the holy K’kree. Most kin-to-the-sky are
unable to function as more than wandering oracular
prophets speaking in riddles but some emerge with a
vision and give out chillingly precise advice on matters
they could not possibly know anything about.

In the longer term, a K’kree who is alone, whether as
an outcast or having become lost, may be able to cope
if there is some hope of a return to the herd – even as a
casteless hanger-on at the fringes. Each day, a Difficult
(10+) END check is required. Success indicates the
K’kree can act rationally and productively that day
without penalty. A DM equal to any negative Effect is
applied to all tasks on days the K’kree fails the check,
and the K’kree will be nervous, irritable and likely to
rage-quit on any task that seems remotely difficult.
An Effect of –6 or worse results in a collapse into
despair for D3 days, during which the K’kree will just
wander aimlessly, destroy things he has created and
contemplate suicide.

K’kree who work in an environment where confinement
is inevitable eventually become used to it or seek some
less upsetting line of work. A K’kree who lives and works
aboard a starship can use his highest shipboard skill
(such as Pilot, Astrogation or Engineer) as a DM when
determining if he panics upon being confined. Even the
most hardened K’kree spacer can suffer a panic attack
when boarding his ship and may have to choose between
forcing himself to enter or being left behind.

Speed of Hoof: If a K’kree performs three minor actions
in a round and all three are used for movement (as
described on page 72 of the Traveller Core Rulebook),
then it gains a bonus minor action, which can also be
used for movement.

SURVIVING

LONELINESS

There are ways a K’kree can survive the loneliness of
isolation. One is to enter a state of temporary madness
known as ‘kin-to-the-grass’. A K’kree in this state ceases
to be rational and will do no more than wander around,
nibbling listlessly at vegetation. In effect, he will revert
to the non-sentient state of his distant ancestors.
Revival from a kin-to-the-grass state is not certain even
if the K’kree is rescued but it is possible that once
surrounded by a friendly herd he will slowly regain his
senses over a period of days, weeks or even months. In
some cases the state is permanent.
In a few rare cases, isolated K’kree are struck with what
can seem to others as divine inspiration. Rather than
becoming kin-to-the-grass they become ‘kin-to-the-sky’,
a rapturous state in which the K’kree can see and hear
his ancestors – both direct kin and cultural heroes.
Only an already unhinged or desperate K’kree would
deliberately isolate himself and try to become kin-to-thesky but there have been those who made the attempt.
Most ended their days in gibbering madness but a few
achieved the holy state with enough of their faculties
remaining to cope with daily life.

126

NON-K’KREE K’KREE

Very occasionally, a K’kree will, for whatever reason,
be brought up outside a traditional K’kree family. This
results in a status called Aux!Rraak G’naak or ‘probably
just vermin’ among ‘real’ K’kree. Species is irrelevant
here; what is important is whether the Traveller knows
how to act like a ‘proper’ K’kree, which is unlikely. Even
then, the outsider is unlikely to be fully accepted and at
best live at the fringes of a herd.
An outsider K’kree of this kind still has the Gregarious
and Claustrophobic traits, which are instinctive rather
than learned. However, the not-K’kree gains a special
skill called Outsider at level 0 in addition to other
background skills. The Outsider skill can be increased
instead of any event that increases a characteristic
during their careers. Thus if an outsider known
affectionately as ‘Little Jim Horsey’ to his friends gains
INT+1 during his career in the Imperial Bureaucracy, he
may swap this for a level of Outsider.
The Outsider skill is used in checks to overcome
claustrophobia and loneliness but becomes a negative
DM on interactions with ‘real’ K’kree. Thus Jim Horsey,
with Outsider 3 suffers DM-3 on all checks when trying
to get along with ‘real’ K’kree.
A K’kree with Outsider 0 or better makes checks to deal
with loneliness less often than an isolated ‘real’ K’kree.
At skill level 0 the check is made every D3 days. Skill
level 1 raises this to 1D days; level 2 to 2D days level 3
to 3D days and so forth. In addition, if a check is failed,
the K’kree Traveller can try to pull himself together the
next day with a new check.

