The Outsider skill even allows a K’kree to tolerate meateaters, although not to consume it himself. At level 1
and above he is not instinctively revulsed by the smell of
meat consumption from another person and a successful
Average (8+) Outsider check allows the K’kree to remain
in the presence of someone eating meat without losing
his temper. Seeing raw meat being prepared or, worse,
animals being killed for food will still be repellent and
those who do not respect the outsider’s sensibilities will
cease to be his friends.

CREATING A

Outsider K’kree retain the herd instinct and will
usually find a surrogate herd to join. This might be a
group of Travellers but sometimes manifests in bizarre
ways. The least of these are the acquisition of pets or
robotic companions and sometimes the outsider will be
compelled to collect a particular type of object – which
might be anything from stuffed animals to rare coins.

Characteristics: STR+6, INT+2, EDU+2
Traits: Big and Tough, Claustrophobic, Gregarious

The Referee should always remember that behaviour of
this sort is contrary to the fundamental nature of the
K’kree. ‘Real’ K’kree would consider an outsider to be
insane, potentially dangerously so, and there is some
truth in this. No matter what career an outsider K’kree
follows, no matter how successful he is or how high his
Outsider skill gets, he is in denial of his nature. Other
K’kree will hate him even more if he is successful in
denying his heritage and he will always be a troubled
individual. The companionship of a surrogate herd of
mismatched starfarers might be enough to keep him
more or less sane but this individual will never be ‘quite
right’. This may drive him to excel in all manner of
fields but can also lead to self-destructive or irrational
behaviour. Anyone wanting to play an outsider K’kree
must be prepared for this challenge.

If the Traveller is an outsider, his SOC is rolled for
normally. It is considered to be 0 in K’kree society –
little different to that of any other non-K’kree. If the
Traveller is to be an outsider, they gain Outsider 0 and
begin Traveller creation as normal for the adopted home
society. An outsider cannot gain wives, family members
and other K’kree as followers.

With these provisos in mind, an outsider K’kree with a
suitable backstory can enter any career a human could,
although there are some occupations that would be
repellent. A merchant or soldier is much the same from
one culture to another but even outsider K’kree would
be unlikely to take a job than requires working in small
spaces. One who spent a lot of time alone in a vacc suit
repairing the exterior of space stations might one day
find himself kin-to-the-sky, which would indeed be an
interesting roleplaying challenge.

K’KREE TRAVELLER

K’kree are created using a similar process to other
Travellers, although unless an outsider is being created
the Traveller will be the head of a household rather than
an individual and gain additional family members.
Use the characteristics and traits for K’kree Travellers
shown below:

Note that these characteristics assume a patriarch of
a family is being created. All other male K’kree have
STR+6, but also INT-4 and EDU-4. Female K’kree have
STR+3 and EDU-5.

If traditional K’kree Traveller creation is used instead,
the Traveller’s caste is determined by his SOC score
and is unlikely to change unless a Life Event occurs.
The Traveller begins at the level of servant-ofrankholder in his caste. His family’s specialist area is
determined using the Specialist Area table with the
following modifiers:
If Merchant: DM+3
If Noble: DM+5

Specialist Area
1D+Modifers
0–4
5–6
7
8
9
10+

Specialist Area
Service
Warrior
Mercantile/Economic
Technical/Scientific
Naval
Leader/Diplomatic

Casteless K’kree do not determine a specialist area, for
obvious reasons. Instead they, along with very traditional
K’kree who live a pastoral life apart from spacefaring
society, use the K’kree career on page 130.

127

