All K’kree males, regardless of caste, spend their first
term as warriors, proving their worth to the herd before
embarking upon their intended career. A K’kree’s career is
determined by his caste: Servant, Merchant or Noble. An
additional career, known simply as K’kree, is available to
any casted K’kree. This has a very limited skill selection
and little prospect for advancement. Any K’kree Traveller
who can make a case for it – perhaps time spent with
the traditionalist herds of Kirur itself – can serve terms
in this career. It could also be used to create casteless
Travellers, althought by definition they cannot have wives
and usually meet an untimely end as decoys.

Background Skills

All K’kree family patriarchs (or patriarchs-to-be) gain the
following background skills:
Melee Combat 0
Patriarchy 0
Recon 0
Survival 0

Terms

Each term, K’kree have similar opportunities to nonK’kree, paralleling the chance for commission or
promotion. In addition, they may gain family members
or extra skills on the Household Development table.
Promotion is based upon SOC and assisted by the
Patriarchy skill. One attempt at promotion can be made
each term until the Traveller reaches the status of
rankholder. Elevation to the next social class requires

an increase in SOC and is very rare. There is no roll for
elevation each term; it is determined only by events.

Household Development

In mainstream K’kree society, some events are almost
certain to take place at key points in a male’s life. His
first term will be spent as a warrior serving his clanlord
or – if he is very lucky – his Steppelord. At the end
of this term he will almost certainly be married, after
which his household will develop as he serves more
terms. By the time he is ready to venture to the stars, a
K’kree patriarch may command quite a force of warriors,
technicians and servants, and be followed by his
attentive and adoring wives.
The Traveller gains D3 additional family members each
time he adds a wife. Their nature is determined at the
end of Traveller creation – they might be considered
to be mustering-out benefits! It is possible that family
members may die or otherwise be lost during a career.
Gaining wives is not certain. Each time a possible
acquisition is indicated, a Patriarchy check must be
made. More wives means greater status, so K’kree
males will try hard to gain as many as possible. A K’kree
male who has not yet married will be accompanied by
an entourage of other bachelors, servants and the like
– enough to keep him from going crazy with loneliness
until he meets a suitable wife.
Additional skills are mandated in some terms, gained in
addition to wives and family members. Both are covered
on the Career Progress table.

Career Progress
Term
1

Event
Basic training as a warrior

2

First wife and establishment of household: Easy
(4+) Patriarchy check

3
4
5
6

Additional wife: Routine (6+) Patriarchy check
Additional wife: Average (8+) Patriarchy check
Additional wife: Difficult (10+) Patriarchy check
Additional wife: Very Difficult (12+) Patriarchy
check
Additional wife: Formidable (14+) Patriarchy
check
Additional wife: Formidable (14+) Patriarchy
check

7
8+

128

Notes
Skills must be taken from the Warrior table of the
correct caste
Gains basic training in career. If the Patriarchy
check is successful, gain Senior Wife and D3 family
members.
Gain one additional Service Skill
Gain one level in Patriarchy
Gain one additional Service Skill
Gain one level in Patriarchy
Gain one additional Service Skill
Gain one additional Service Skill

