MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured in a predator or enemy attack, lose D3 points from among STR, DEX and END but do not leave the
career.

2

You anger your herdlord and are punished with a period of ostracism. Gain one level of Outsider. You do not
leave the career.

3

One of your wives dies or is otherwise taken from you. In your grief you offend many other K’kree. Gain D3
Rivals or one Enemy and lose a wife. You do not leave the career.

4

After a dispute whose origins are way over your head, your herd now has powerful enemies. You gain an Enemy.
You do not leave the career.

5

Your herd is involved in a dispute with another and you are used as cannon-fodder. Make a Melee check. On
8+ you survive the fight but are not rewarded. Otherwise, lose –1 point from STR or END and still receive no
reward. You do not leave the career.

6

You are ejected from the herd. Gain 1 level of Outsider. You are no longer a K’kree; you are nothing. Survive as
best you can or die. Nobody cares either way.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

Your herd is involved in a vigorous or even violent dispute with another. You do your part with honour, earning
deserved praise from your herdlord. You also gain D3 Enemies.

4

You are part of a diplomatic mission to a non-K’kree group. Gain 1 level of Diplomat or a non-K’kree Contact for
this weird and unsettling experience.

5

You have to undertake tasks outside the normal pastoral existence and are very glad to get back to the correct
and proper life you wanted. Gain 1 level in any skill.

6

Your herd undertakes a long trek for reasons that presumably makes sense to your leaders. Gain 1 level of
Navigation or Survival kill.

7

Life Event. Roll on the K’kree Life Events table on page 138.

8

Your herd meets with many others for a great ceremony. Gain 1 level of Profession (K’kree ritual) and a Contact
outside your herd.

9

Defending your family and herd bravely, you suffer an injury that reduces END by -1, but you gain 1 level of
Melee or Gun Combat.

10

You serve well and are personally commended by the Steppelord. Gain SOC+1 and a Contact at the
Steppelord’s court (who may or may not be K’kree).

11

You are offered the chance to be adopted into the big family of a herdlord or clanlord, perhaps by marrying one
of his female offspring. If you agree, your SOC jumps to 13 and you enter the Noble career as a servant-ofrankholder in your next term.

12

You got cut off from the herd. It was horrible but then the ancestors came and sang to you. They revealed great
truths and led you home. You can still hear them sometimes and your herd-mates say you are becoming onewith-the-sky.

