MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured in a predator or enemy attack; lose –D3 points from among STR, DEX and END but do not leave the
career.

2

You anger your herdlord and are punished with a period of ostracism. Gain one level of Outsider. You do not
leave the career.

3

One of your wives dies or is otherwise taken from you. In your grief you offend many other K’kree. Gain D3
Rivals or one Enemy and lose a wife. You do not leave the career.

4

Your status in the herd is diminished. If you accept this, SOC is reduced by –1 and you gain an Ally who
respects your correct attitude. If you think you did not deserve this, gain a level of Outsider and an Enemy. You
do not leave the career.

5

D3 of your family members are killed or otherwise lost to the herd. Their sacrifice is compensated by an
increase of SOC+1, which may elevate you into the next caste. You do not leave the career.

6

You were ejected from the herd. Gain 1 level of Outsider. You are no longer a K’kree; you are nothing. Survive as
best you can, or die. Nobody cares either way.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

Your herd is involved in a vigorous or even violent dispute with another. You do your part with honour, earning
deserved praise from your herdlord and an additional Benefits roll. You also gain D3 Enemies.

4

Your herd goes on a mission. You complete your tasks to the herdlord’s satisfaction. Gain 1 Contact or one level
in any skill available on the tables of this caste.

5

You are given an onerous task you do not know how to complete. Make an INT check. On 10+ you gain 1 level
of Jack-of-all-Trades and a Rival made to look stupid by your success. If not, you suffer humiliation and abuse.

6

Your herd needs to prepare for war. Gain 1 level in Melee or Gun Combat.

7

Life Event. Roll on the K’kree Life Events table on page 138.

8

Your herd meets with many others for a great ceremony. Gain 1 level of Profession (K’kree ritual) and a Contact
outside your herd.

9

You have to follow your herdlord on a space voyage. It is unpleasant, especially when they make you practice
wearing a vacc suit. Gain 1 level of Vacc Suit.

10

You serve well and are personally commended by the Steppelord. Gain SOC+1 and a Contact at the
Steppelord’s court (who may or may not be a K’kree).

11

An important Merchant caste leader offers you one of his daughters in marriage. Gain an extra wife, SOC 7,
elevation to servant-of-rankholder in the Merchant caste and the admiration of your former peers.

12

A relative of yours was lost for a time, then came home as one-with-the-sky. You are not sure what to make of
his ramblings but gain D3 Contacts among the dignitaries who have come to hear them and also SOC+1 for the
association.

