MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured in an accident, you lose D3 points from among STR, DEX and END but do not leave the career.

2

You anger your herdlord and are punished with reduced status. SOC is lowered by –D3 which may drop you into
the Servant caste. You do not leave the career.

3

One of your wives dies or is otherwise taken from you. In your grief you offend many other K’kree. Gain D3
Rivals or one Enemy and lose a wife. You do not leave the career.

4

You exceed your status when offering advice to your superiors. Lose one benefits roll and gain a Rival who
profited from your eclipse. You do not leave the career.

5

War or serious inter-herd conflict kills 1D of your family members. Make an Average (8+) Patriarchy check. If
you pass, you marry a new wife quickly enough to avoid embarrassment. If not, lose SOC-1. You do not leave
the career.

6

You were ejected from the herd. Gain 1 level of Outsider. You are no longer a K’kree; you are nothing. Survive as
best you can or die. Nobody cares either way.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

Your herd is involved in a highly successful endeavour. You do your part with honour, earning deserved praise
from your herdlord and SOC+1. You also gain D3 Rivals.

4

You learned new skills appropriate to your status. Gain one roll on any skill table available to this caste.

5

You solved many problems to bring your herd great success. Gain one level of Jack-of-all-Trades and some
words of praise from your herdlord.

6

Your herd needs to prepare for war. Gain 1 level in Electronics (remote ops) or Gun Combat.

7

Life Event. Roll on the K’kree Life Events table on page 138.

8

Your herd meets with many others for a great ceremony. Gain 1 level of Profession (K’kree ritual) and a Contact
outside your herd.

9

Your clan journeys among the stars. Gain one level of Engineer, Astrogator or Electronics.

10

Your clanlord selects you to be a member of a special delegation providing hospitality to a powerful rival. You
have to quickly learn to lead the servants. Gain one level of Steward skill and make an Average (8+) Profession
(K’kree ritual) check. If successful, gain SOC+1 and your clanlord’s favour. If you fail, you gain your clanlord’s
rival as an Enemy.

11

You serve aboard a warship with your herdlord. Gain one level in Pilot, Electronics (remote ops) or Gunner.

12

A Herdlord offers you one of his daughters in marriage. Gain an extra wife, SOC 11, elevation to rankholder as
the head of a small family in the noble caste and the admiration of your former peers.

