MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured in an attack by enemies of your clan, you lose D3 points from among STR, DEX and END but do not
leave the career.

2

Your leadership is called into question, almost inciting a revolt among your household. Make a Difficult (10+)
Patriarchy check. If successful, lose 1 level of Patriarchy and dismiss one of your wives in disgrace. If you fail,
reduce SOC by –1 and revert to servant-to-rankholder at the new rank. You do not leave the career unless you
drop into the Merchant caste.

3

One of your wives is killed by enemies. Make an Average (8+) Patriarchy check. If successful, your bloody
vengeance earns you respect and D3 Enemies. If you fail, you are humiliated by your failure and must reduce
SOC by –1 and revert to servant-to-rankholder at the new rank. You do not leave the career unless you drop into
the Merchant caste.

4

Your immediate superior suffers a huge setback. Roll 1D: 1–2 it was your fault and you are blamed. You are
ejected from this career and cannot begin another. On a 3–4 it was not your fault but you were blamed anyway.
Results are as 1–2 and you gain an Enemy too. On 5–6 it was not your fault and you won acclaim for the way
you prevented the situation getting any worse. Gain an Ally from outside your clan.

5

You narrowly survive an accident or conflict that kills some of your family. 1D of your family members are slain
and every third one is a wife. You face criticism for failing to protect your family and lose a number of SOC
points equal to the number of wives slain. You do not leave the career unless you drop into the Merchant caste.

6

You were ejected from the herd. Gain 1 level of Outsider. You are no longer a K’kree; you are nothing. Survive as
best you can, or die. Nobody cares either way.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table.

3

You lead your family well and with great honour. You are automatically promoted from servant-ot-rankholder to
kin-of-rankholder, or from kin to rankholder. If you are already a rankholder, you gain SOC+1 and become kinto-rankholder at the new social level. Your success gains you D3 Rivals or one Enemy.

4

You have to deal with outsiders on behalf of your clan. Gain one level of Diplomacy or Leadership.

5

You are challenged to a contest of martial prowess by a rival. Make an Average (8+) Melee check. Success
earns you an Ally who admires your skills and noble bearing.

6

You lead your people in conflict, even if this was not your normal role. Gain 1 level in Melee, Gun Combat or
Tactics.

7

Life Event. Roll on the K’kree Life Events table on page 138.

8

Your herd meets with many others for a great ceremony. Gain 1 level of Profession (K’kree ritual) and a Contact
outside your herd.

9

Your clan journeys among the stars. Gain one level of Astrogation or Pilot.

10

You are charged with a complex and distasteful mission by your superior. Gain 1 level of Diplomat, Persuade or
Streetwise.

11

You serve at the side of your superior during a difficult challenge and gain his favour. Gain one level of Carouse
and your superior as an Ally.

12

A superior noble offers you one of his daughters in marriage. Gain an extra wife, SOC+1 and enter the new
social level as kin-to-rankholder.

