K’kree Life Events
2D
2
3
4
5
6

7
8
9
10

11
12

Event
Sickness or Injury: Roll on the Injury table of the Core Rulebook (page 47).
Spouse Death: One of your wives dies unexpectedly but without suspicious circumstances.
Enmity Begins: You gain an Enemy among your own people.
Rivalry Begins: You gain a Rival among your own people.
Hurried Marriage: You have to marry one of your daughters (or close female relatives) off quickly when
her arranged match falls through. She is forced to marry beneath her station to avoid becoming
casteless and her new family hope to take advantage of the situation.
Contact: You gain a potentially useful Contact.
Relocation: Your herd is ordered to move to a new world, causing significant upheaval.
Good Marriage: You arrange a marriage for one of your daughters or female relatives to a good family.
Roll 1D. The family head becomes a Contact (1–4) or an Ally (5–6).
Accusations: You are accused of something really bad, like failing to venerate your ancestors or
disrespecting your Steppelord. The ensuing wrangling takes up a lot of time and distracts you from your
duties. Lose D3 Benefit rolls.
Feud: Your clan or herd becomes involved in a bitter feud with rivals. Gain D3 Enemies and an Ally
among your own people.
Unusual Event: Roll one of the unusual events from the Life Events table (see page 44 of the Traveller
Core Rulebook) or consult the Referee for something truly out of the ordinary.

BENEFITS

Most K’kree mustering-out benefits are similar to those
for other species.
Weapon: The Traveller will receive the traditional
weapons of the K’kree warrior; a lance, a short sword
(called a hand-blade) and a small shield. The highly
ornate version presented is perfectly serviceable
but more importantly represents the favour of the
Traveller’s superiors. It is considered a compliment
to the superior to carry the presentation weapons
into action and bringing them back with the blood
of enemies upon them is grounds for triumphant
celebrations and further reward.

THE FAMILY

A K’kree Traveller will be the head of a small family as
the basic unit is called and part of (or even the head of)
a larger grouping ranging from a big family ruling over
several small families all the way up to an entire world.
The immediate family of a K’kree patriarch is considered
to have the same SOC as he does, although as kinto-rankholder and servant-to-rankholder respective to
their patriarch. The final stage of Traveller creation is to
determine the composition of this family.
The patriarch has complete dominance over his family,
who will do whatever he orders. Conversely, he has a
duty to protect and nurture them. He will almost never
undertake a task alone but usually order it to be carried
out then either supervise or lead depending on the task
at hand.

138

A patriarch’s wives do nothing except look after their
children, at least as far as the patriarch is concerned.
How much politicking and infighting goes on in a
family is not a public matter and it may be that some
patriarchs are given good advice by their wives – but
never in public. Thus the skills of wives are not relevant.
Such is K’kree society. Other cultures have words for
this sort of thing, usually uncomplimentary ones, but the
K’kree consider it is the right and proper order of things
and are not receptive to criticism.
A family will contain D3-1 immature K’kree for every
wife. Not all of these are the children of the wives; some
families have a child or two they are raising for others,
either out of social custom or on the orders of a superior.
The herd takes care of orphans in this way. These
juveniles are also irrelevant in terms skills, not least
since their main role in a crisis is to run away.
In a family group there will be a number of adult K’kree
(in addition to the patriarch and his wives) who carry out
the patriarch’s orders. These are non-breeding relatives
and servants of the patriarch, who may someday be
released from service to start their own families or
even inherit leadership of the family – along with any
surviving wives. In the meantime, they serve as ordered.
In general, when a K’kree patriarch orders an action to be
taken, his skill is used no matter who actually carries out
the task. He is the leader and he knows best; to ignore his
orders because a subordinate thinks they are more skilled
would be defiance and defiance is not acceptable!

