There are exceptions, however. When a physical task
such as driving a vehicle or fighting is carried out,
the Referee may allow the skill of the K’kree actually
performing the task to be used but more commonly
warriors or workers in a family are simply treated as
extra hands for the patriarch.

•

•

A Patriarch will have a number of useful family members
equal to 2D3 + his Patriarchy skill. Their roles can be
selected as follows.
Warriors: No more than half the entourage of a noble
K’kree can be warriors. No more than two warriors can
follow a Merchant caste leader and no more than one
can be present in a Servant caste family.
Specialists: A family may have as many specialist
administrators, drivers, technicians and general
functionaries as the patriarch thinks fit. If he does not
have a relevant skill but one of his subordinates does,
the family as a whole is assumed to have DM+2 to carry
out the task. If there are more than one K’kree in the
family with the same skill, each additional functionary
adds an additional DM+1. However, if the patriarch has
a relevant skill then it must be used even if his staff are
better able to carry out the task.
Workers and Servants: At least one-third of the K’kree
in a family must be servants or workers. These do not
supply skills but carry out many functions necessary to
maintaining their patriarch’s status in K’kree society.

FAMILY MEMBERS

IN COMBAT

A family’s warriors and patriarch can be treated as a
small-unit fighting force and run independently but this is
time consuming. It is often desirable to treat the patriarch
and his family as a single unit, with extra abilities.
•
•

Each warrior fighting for the patriarch is treated as
an extra attack at the patriarch’s skill level and with
his weapon.
Warriors will take a bullet for their lord. When the
patriarch takes damage, up to 15 points (after
armour Protection has been taken into account but
before the Big and Tough trait is applied) can be
traded for a warrior. The warrior will be seriously
injured, perhaps dead, and his extra attack is lost.
Only one warrior can do this per attack.

•

A servant or functionary can be traded for 10
points of damage, though a K’kree patriarch who
hides among his servants will eventually face
censure or ostracism.
If a family member is injured in combat in this
way, the patriarch makes an END check after the
battle. If failed, the family member has been killed.
If successful, roll 1D. On 1–4, the family member
has had two physical characteristics reduced to 0.
On 5–6, just one physical characteristic has been
reduced to 0.
Wives and children are too precious to be treated
this way. Most patriarchs – no matter how sexist and
condescending they may be – would die to defend
their wives and families.

For example, a minor K’kree noble has five adult males
in his entourage, plus his wives and children. For
colour, he decides that two of the males are his younger
brothers, two are unrelated but sworn to his service and
one is an orphaned young male he has been assigned to
raise by his clanlord. As a noble he is entitled to up to
half of his entourage as warriors and one-third have to
be servants. Rounding these figures sensibly, the noble
decides to have two warriors as bodyguards, two servants
to look after his family and one expert – an administrator
in this case – to handle his finances.
The patriarch has no Admin skill of his own, so when he
orders that an administrative task be accomplished, his
expert’s DM+2 is used. The servants are directed by the
patriarch via this functionary and can be assumed to be
competent at combing their lord’s mane or passing his
wine. The warriors mostly stand about looking tough and
enjoying their status as their noble brother’s protectors.
In combat, the patriarch and his brothers are treated
as a single unit, which makes three attacks with the
patriarch’s weapons each round. Attacks are directed
at the patriarch himself but if hit he has the option of
trading one of his bodyguards for 15 points of damage.
This will deprive him of the warrior’s firepower in later
rounds (and possibly of his brother on a permanent
basis!) but it is the way of the K’kree. Warriors have a
role to play, as do leaders. A wise leader knows what he
can purchase with the lives of his followers and pays the
price when necessary.

139

