C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

N

I

N

E

VEHICLES OF THE K’KREE
K’kree vehicles must be large enough to accommodate
multiple K’kree, each of whom is of a considerable
size. The smallest feasible enclosed vehicle carries
four K’kree and any less risks panic and madness.
Similarly, it is not possible to assign a single driver to
a vehicle intended to carry passengers or cargo. Thus
most vehicles are either driven by a semi-autonomous
robotic unit similar to that used in weapons carriers or
are owned by a family and driven directly by a family
member. Groups of single-occupant open platforms are
used in some areas but as a rule K’kree walk short (by
the standards of quadruped grazers) distances or use
large transports to move the whole family at once. Even
splitting a family group between two or more enclosed
vehicles in close proximity to one another can be
distressing, so travel is usually aboard a single, opensided vehicle.

Crew and Passengers

K’kree vehicles must allocate five times as many Spaces
to passengers and crew as an equivalent humanoperated vehicle would have (so, a K’kree will require
a minimum of five Spaces on a vehicle). This includes
supports to allow K’kree to stand in comfort and
emergency restraints used in the event of a crash.

Open Vehicles

K’kree vehicles are built with partial sides and rails for
safety, with an open top. A light covering can be drawn
or unfolded over the top for weather protection and is
included as standard on most vehicles.

148

All K’kree vehicles have the Open trait and reduce their
Speed by one Speed Band.
Combat vehicles often use folding panels that, when
deployed, partially or fully seal the vehicle. This
removes the Open trait and allows the vehicle to travel
one Speed Band faster.
Folding Panels cost Cr500 per point of armour carried
by the vehicle.

Controlled Pintle/Ring Mount

Controlled pintle or ring mounts are unarmoured
mountings for light weapons, either operated manually
or from a station within the vehicle. A controlled mount
costs Cr1500.

Controlled Open Mount

Controlled open mounts are essentially a turret
mechanism without enclosing armour. A controlled
mount can be either operated manually or from a station
within the vehicle, and carries a slightly larger weapon
than a small turret – up to 6 Spaces – while consuming
1 Space inside the vehicle. A controlled mount costs
Cr3000 for every Space of installed weaponry.

