MOBILE FIGHTING

PLATFORM

Somewhere between personnel carriers, oversized tanks
and mobile command posts. This medium-sized MFP
operates with a crew of up to 12 K’kree warriors. Its high
level of automation permits a single individual to set up
movement and fire patterns, and all weapons can be fired
semi-autonomously. As a rule, one Merchant-class operator
will be carried for each major weapon system, plus the
commanding Noble.
Basic hull form is oval like many other K’kree vehicles but
with a greater length-to-beam ratio and tapering tail that
makes the MFP seem less like a ‘flying saucer’ than some
designs. Underside and top armour are fixed but there are
folding panels in the all-round armour, which allow the
crew relief from confinement and the ability to directly
engage enemies with small arms.
The base section of the vehicle is wider than
the armoured section, creating a walkway where
crewmembers can stand and operate weapons manually.
At need, weapon crews can retreat through the folding
panels and close them, using the weaponry remotely.
It is possible to run right around the outside of the
MFP, although this requires stepping over the barrel of

152

the forward-firing plasma gun. This, the MFP’s primary
weapon, is located in a limited-traverse mount facing
forward and protected by heavy frontal armour.
Lighter weapons include six laser cannon mounted on
sponsons projecting from the walkway. Two are mounted
on the forward quarters and two aft, on the walkway
alongside the narrow tail. The cannon are on open mounts
and can be fired manually from outside the armour (this is
preferred by most crews) or from the safety of the vehicle’s
remote fighting stations. There is another on a platform
where the top of the armoured hull begins to round down
into the tail. A sixth light laser cannon, for the use of the
vehicle commander, is located on the command platform
atop the front of the main superstructure. Here, a noble
K’kree can command his vehicle and enjoy the air rushing
past his face – at least until heavy fire drives him inside
the armoured section. The vehicle’s pilot stands alongside
his master, a position of great favour and no little danger.
The MFP also mounts four anti-missile laser systems.
These are normally controlled by the vehicle’s automated
defensive systems but can be fired from a station inside
the armoured section at need. One is located on the rear
of the commander’s station and one on the aft platform,
with two more on the underside of the midships sponsons
for all-round coverage. These are sometimes used as antipersonnel weapons when the MFP is close to the ground.

