C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

E

N

HIGH GUARD: K’KREE
Most starships operating within K’kree space are built
to TL9–11 standards. More advanced craft are available
to those with money and connections but for interstellar
commerce and routine travel a sedate pace is the norm.
The unique characteristics of the K’kree – their size
and need for the company of others – mean that their
vessels are built differently to those used by humans
and other small creatures. A K’kree engineer literally
cannot crawl into a narrow space to find a problem and
if they can physically fit into a tight space, being alone
and confined would make carrying out complex tasks
impossible even if it did not cause a mental breakdown.
Much use is made of remotely-controlled maintenance
units, which can be operated from an engineering
console, and wherever possible an open-plan mode of
construction is used. This means that pipes and wiring
conduits are highly exposed compared to human ships.
Spacecraft crews are still exposed to considerable stress
by the nature of their environment and many K’kree
simply cannot handle the pressure. Some are unable to
even travel as passengers and must remain confined to a
single world or be transported in low berths.
Accommodation is the most obvious area where designs
differ from other species. K’kree need a communal
living area but it must be properly delineated – it
would not do for a mere Merchant-caste family to
wander amongst a Noble’s entourage! Thus rather than
staterooms, K’kree vessels use enclosures. These are
not normally fully enclosed, although some have the
capability to be sealed off in an emergency. Enclosures
are rated by their quality, which determines which caste
will deign to travel in them, as well as capacity. As a
general rule, K’kree need at least three to four times as
much living and working space as a human, although a
family or fighting-band can occupy a smaller space on a
communal basis.

DESIGN FEATURES

The lack of internal compartmentalisation within K’kree
ships weakens their structure. To reflect this, reduce
Hull points by 25% for any craft or vessel that carries

live crew or passengers. Robotic craft are not affected.
There is no cost saving for this; it is merely the way
K’kree build their ships. This feature should be borne
in mind when designing deck plans; K’kree ships are
frighteningly open-plan by human standards – but then
human ships are claustrophobic nightmare spaces fit
only for G’naak.

Enclosures

At their most basic, enclosures provide sleeping,
hygiene and minimal recreation facilities for a group of
K’kree of the appropriate social caste, as shown on the
Enclosure table. K’kree have little concept of privacy
but need space apart from other families to maintain
their own bonds. An enclosure will be one of two basic
types; minimal or secure. Minimal enclosures have no
protection against depressurisation or physical threats,
whereas a secure enclosure will have partial walls
(which may be transparent) and the ability to create a
sealed environment with emergency shutters, drop-down
partitions and local life support equipment.
If an enclosure is not big enough to hold a whole family
or fighting-band then it is not big enough. Groups
cannot be split up, except where adjoining enclosures
permit a group to use both.
For small craft intended only for short hops between
ships, installations and planets, enclosures are not
needed. Instead, the K’kree equivalent of cabin space
is used. Acceleration benches for K’kree cost the same
as for humans (Cr10000 per ton) but each ton only
provides accommodation for one K’kree. In addition,
cabin space is required at the rate of four tons per
K’kree. This includes basic sanitary and hospitality
facilities but most importantly just enough space to turn
around, take a couple of steps and ‘be a K’kree rather
than a lump of cargo strapped to a bench’. Cabin space
costs the same as for humans (Cr50000 per ton). At a
minimum, a K’kree small craft must allocate five tons
per passenger at a cost of Cr210000. If comfort and
prestige are desired, this increases considerably.

