software. This vessel could not fire weapons, however as
this is a gunner function and not covered by the basic
operations package.
K’Kree ships cannot use standard virtual crew or
specialist software in combination with an operations
package. If the ability to operate weapons is desired a
military operations package is requires and a specialised
or advanced package must be used to gain additional
DMs. Non-robotic ships can use standard virtual crew
software to replace some of their crew, in the same
manner as vessels produced by any other species.
Standard Operations Package: The Standard Operations
Package is designed to replace up to five crewmembers
aboard a craft carrying out simple tasks such as surfaceto-orbit shuttling, sensor flybys and cargo transfers.
The simplest of these is sometimes termed a ‘Standard
Shuttle’ package and is quite adequate for routine work
but requires an operator to assume manual control for
complex tasks. More advanced packages are capable of
dealing with problems like wind shear or using optimal
shortest-time courses far more efficiently than a standard
package and provide a smoother docking, which can be
important in craft intended as status symbols.
A Standard Operations Package can replace pilots,
engineers and maintenance personnel. It can compute
a short course, such as a surface-to-highport route, but
if complex astrogation (for example, least-time transfer
from orbit around one world in a system to another) is

A11/58231

ELECTROMAGNETICENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
SUITE (TL11)

An electromagnetic-environment protection suite is the
forerunner to a countermeasures suite. It contains basic
jammers and electromagnetic warfare systems, which
grant DM+1 to electronic warfare tasks. In addition,
the suite contains ejectable decoys which increase
this to DM+2 when deployed. There are enough decoys
aboard for six uses, each of that remains in effect for
D3 rounds before scattering. This capability comes at
the price of a rather bulky and power-hungry system
consuming 6 tons and 3 Power. The suite costs MCr3.

156

required then the course must be externally calculated
and downloaded to the robotic craft. Standard
Operations Packages cannot operate weapons or other
defensive systems.
Full Operations Package: A Full Operations Package
is designed to replace a larger crew and provide a
wider range of capabilities. Full Operations Packages
can replace pilots, astrogators, engineers and
support personnel but not gunners. A full package
can replace up to 10 personnel before requiring
additional Bandwidth and has a maximum capacity
of 20 personnel. Where a standard package can pilot
a shuttle from one port to another and plonk it on a
landing pad, a full package can calculate a course
across a star system then provide orders to cargohandling robots on how to obtain optimal cargo transfer
times and at the same time ensure its positioning
relative to other craft follows rules of etiquette so its
owners status is correctly conveyed.
Military Operations Package: Military Operations
Packages permit the replacement of any crewmember,
including gunners and screens operators. Military
packages are optimised for small craft and tailored to
their expected role. Packages may be tailored to their
intended role or a more general package may be used to
save costs. Tailored packages give additional bonuses, at
a cost in Credits and Bandwidth.

