C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

E

L

E

V

E

N

K’KREE IN TRAVELLER

Whenever K’kree are encountered, whether as Travellers
or played by the referee the same considerations apply.
To others of his kind, a K’kree who deviates from these
principles is not K’kree at all even if he looks like one.
Tales of G’naak in the guise of K’kree are told to the
young and form part of their cultural heritage and no
matter how rational a K’kree might be there is always an
underlying fear that one who is ‘not of the herd’, either
socially or mentally, might be more than just a deviant.
K’kree do not deviate from their nature: K’kree redefine
the word ‘hidebound’ with their strict adherence to
tradition and obedience to the social order. Their rituals
of veneration to the ancestors are near-constant and
have to be done just right. Disrespect towards their way
of life and social order cannot be tolerated. And G’naak
are G’naak. No exceptions, no mercy, no tolerance.
Solo K’kree do not exist: ‘Rogue’ or ‘maverick’ K’kree
can only exist as a result of serious mental illness and
cannot be played as rational people. They are also
likely to be killed or else forcibly taken back into K’kree
society if they encounter other K’kree – being alone
causes madness, madness causes a desire to act alone,
both are wrong, wrong, wrong! An outcast or orphaned
K’kree might appear in an adventure but this is a tragic,
troubled and doomed character best suited to be played
by the Referee or an experienced player who knows
where the story is leading.
K’kree are big: The difficulties of carrying out many tasks
when you are the size of a horse cannot be over-stated.
This is why K’kree make so much use of robotic craft,
vehicles and technical-assistance devices that can
actually get into the places they are to work.
K’kree operate in groups: Although tasks are generally
carried out by a single K’kree they are not really
performed by an individual so much as by a family or
fighting-band. The head of the group dictates who will
carry out the task and they do the work. Thus a noble
K’kree might describe himself as piloting his ship – and
in his terms he is – but in fact he is giving his pilot
instructions. A single human or Vargr Traveller might
dash to assist her downed comrade but if a K’kree did it
would resemble a stampede of up to a dozen horse-sized
people, most of whom would then stand around offering

168

praise, encouragement and prayers to the ancestors
rather than actually doing anything to help.
These factors make K’kree both interesting and very
difficult to play. They could be presented as generic
homicidal baddies but there is much more to them
than this. Everything the K’kree do makes sense from
their own perspective, even if an outsider cannot
comprehend what just happened. For example, a
K’kree family might be on the verge of success (or
victory over the Travellers perhaps) and then just…
stop. Orders from their clanlord or some important
piece of tradition that requires rituals and rest before
continuing, might derail an otherwise promising
endeavour. The K’kree would not be disappointed by
this; it is how things are and should be.
K’kree are all connected. Small families are part of
a big family and they are part of a herd and a clan.
The actions of a K’kree family patriarch affect his
whole herd and actions toward him are likely to have
repercussions if they come to the attention of his
clanlord. The curious, loose unity of the K’kree at times
holds back their progress but is also a source of great
strength and can be a powerful factor in diplomacy.
When a noble K’kree arrives in his starship and
announces he intends to conduct trade or negotiations,
there is no doubt – as there might be with other species
– that he is there with the approval and backing of his
clan. There are no K’kree ‘rogue traders’ or con-men
motivated by self-interest pretending to speak on behalf
of a greater power. However, that does not mean the
K’kree play straight by outsiders. There is no shame
in deceiving a foreigner with a rigged deal or insincere
promise and no reason not to tear up a treaty if it is no
longer beneficial.
This is the reality of dealing with K’kree. All their
agreements are one-sided; they do not care about
outsiders unless they are powerful enough to be a real
threat. K’kree will only make a deal if it benefits them
and they will certainly stick to it if it continues to do
so. Internal politics or shifting conditions elsewhere
can affect a treaty or agreement but the same factors
that make the K’kree implacable enemies make them
dependable treaty partners and steadfast friends to
those fortunate enough to win their approval.

