C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

T

W

VARGR

E

L

V

E

Vargr are the only major race to have been uplifted
by the Ancients, a fact the Vargr are extremely proud
of. They are often seen by other races as aggressive
pirates and scavengers but Vargr have a diverse culture
deeply rooted in pack mentality and the desire for
companionship, charisma and loyalty. Their constant
struggle for leadership results in a culture fuelled by
conflict and change.
Governments in the Vargr Extents (the area of space
dominated by Vargr) continually rise and fall, borders
move and allegiances change. Life here is turbulent and
dangerous – the Imperium considers all worlds in the
Extents to be Amber Zones unless proven otherwise,
with many designated as Red Zones.
There are few human worlds in the Extents and few
Vargr worlds within the Imperium but both races
coexist in these regions of space. Humans and Vargr
have had a chequered history – a number of wars have
been fought with these two races fighting against, as
well as alongside, each other. However, most conflicts
between them occur on the border worlds where Vargr
empires seek to expand their borders and corsair
raiders attack indiscriminately.
It has been nearly 500 years since the last major
conflict occurred between humans and Vargr. Although
relations since then have been relatively peaceful, the
Vargr are an unpredictable race that embraces conflict;
it is perhaps inevitable that these traits will one day
lead to new hostilities.

PHYSIOLOGY

Vargr are descended from carnivore/chaser stock;
genetically engineered by the Ancients circa –300,000
from the genus Canis and transplanted from Terra to
Lair/Grnouf in the Provence sector. Although Vargr were
artificially developed, a certain amount of evolution and
natural selection took place as the species adapted to
the conditions on Lair without further manipulation by
the Ancients.
Male Vargr typically are 60 kilograms in mass and
stand 1.6 metres high. Females tend to be smaller and
average 1.5 metres in height and 55 kilograms in mass.

169

