Vargr bear a close resemblance to their canine
ancestry, as can be seen by their muzzle, tail and fur.
The latter covers their entire body and can be found
in a variety of colours. The most common colour is
grey but it is not uncommon to see Vargr with brown,
black or even red fur. Fur colour is partly determined
by climate with those from colder regions displaying
a greater variety of colours than those from warmer
areas. Parents from different climates will see offspring
having patterned fur with the stronger bloodline being
the most dominant colour. Tail characteristics such as
length and bushiness also vary greatly between Vargr
from different ethnic backgrounds.
Several anatomical modifications were made by the
Ancients to the canine body structure, the most
significant being stance, forepaws and muzzle. Vargr
adopt a digitigrade stance (putting weight on their
toes rather than the soles of their feet) and many
have a slight stoop although most Vargr would call it
a ‘relaxed stance’. Vargr hands are similar in size and
functionality to human hands but the internal structure
is quite different and unique to Vargr. Muzzles are
shorter than that of their canine ancestors, largely due
to dietary considerations.
Three hundred thousand years of evolution on Lair
resulted in the Vargr adapting to the 26 hour rotation
of their homeworld and this circadian rhythm is shared
by all Vargr. However, Vargr remain extremely flexible in
their sleeping habits, adopting a polyurnal sleep pattern
where they prefer to sleep several times a day for short
periods rather than one single long sleep period. Vargr
will adapt their sleeping habits to their circumstances
but will typically sleep after meals or through
particularly hot or cold periods in the local climate.
The Vargr gestation period is usually four months. Most
litters have two young but litters with as many as five
pups have been known. Pups are born blind and deaf,
completely reliant on their parents to care for them for
the first four months until their senses develop. Vargr
females are able to conceive soon after giving birth but
will rarely do so until their pups are old enough to take
care of themselves, around the age of six.
Vargr share the same senses as humans but they tend
to be more acute. Olfactory receptors develop very
quickly to compensate for a pup’s lack of sight and
sound, resulting in a keen sense of smell that Vargr
use to recognise each other. Vargr hearing is also much
better than a human’s, able to detect a greater range
of frequencies over longer distances; humans are more
sensitive to low frequencies and Vargr are able to hear
high frequency sounds that are inaudible to humans.
Vargr eyesight is sharp but less sensitive to colour than
human eyes and less effective in dark conditions.

Lifespan

Vargr living in industrial areas usually live for 65 to
75 years. Pre-industrial Vargr have a shorter lifespan
due to poor living or environmental conditions and lack
of medical advances. The lifespan for Vargr in higher
technological cultures increases with advancements in
anagathics and medical treatment.

Diet

Vargr are a carnivorous species with the bulk of their
diet being fresh, raw meat. Uncooked fruits and fruitbased drinks are also popular amongst Vargr but lack
the nourishment needed for a healthy lifestyle. Vargr
metabolism is faster and more efficient than the human
digestive system, meaning that Vargr eat more frequently
but are able to fast for longer periods if necessary.
Although Vargr adapted to conditions on Lair and the
indigenous wildlife was edible, it was not as appetising
as the meats that canines had become accustomed
to on Terra. Vargr chefs spent much time and effort to
find herbs, spices and seasoning that make food on
Lair more appealing and gourmets developed these into
sauces and dressings to further enhance Vargr meals.
Selective breeding of livestock was undertaken to improve
local food and make it more appetising. This practice
continues today on many Vargr worlds and comprises
much of the interstellar trade within the Extents.

Subspecies

A little known fact to most outsiders is the number of
Vargr subspecies that exist within the Extents. Most
ethnic minorities were seen as deviations from the
‘perfected’ Vargr race developed by the Ancients and
became the victims of prejudice and racial abuse that
prompted many to leave Vargr society and settle in
the unpopulated regions of Vargr space. Most of these
subspecies remain unknown to the Imperium and even
Vargr knowledge is limited since the subspecies were
outcast from society so long ago.
Urzaeng: The Urzaeng are one of the few subspecies
known to the Imperium and the only subspecies not
outcast by Vargr society due to their superior physical
prowess. Urzaeng average 1.85 metres in height and
weigh 70 kilograms. They are more powerfully built than
the average human and physically a match for Aslan.
The Urzaeng were originally bred by the Ancients for
heavy labour and combat so their increased physical
prowess comes at a cost to their mental characteristics;
this has resulted in the Urzaeng being a naturally violent
people with contempt for weakness.

171

