Kokasha: The Kokasha are all but extinct now and those
that remain live in a refuge in Rukhs Dall (known as
the Trenchans sector in the Imperium). They are the
smallest of the subspecies and were engineered by the
Ancients to have heightened mental faculties at the
expense of physical attributes. Kokasha are typically
1.45 metres high and weigh 50 kilograms. Females are
slightly smaller, averaging 1.4 metres high and weighing
45 kilograms.
Akumgeda: Like most other subspecies, the Akumgeda
fled Lair after their people were ostracised by the rest
of the Vargr population. The Akumgeda settled on a
number of worlds in the Ksinanirz sector and although
some of these settlements still exist, many of the packs
reintegrated with their brethren as the Vargr expanded
throughout the Extents.
The Akumgeda appear much like normal Vargr but tend
to have spotted fur. Although unusual, spots are not
unknown and the Akumgeda found it easy to blend in
with ‘normal’ Vargr. What set the Akumgeda apart was
their strong psionic ability and some postulate that the
Vargr only developed psionic powers after the Akumgeda
reintegrated with their society.
Nakagun: This outcast subspecies lives in exile in the
Nakagun sector and are known to possess strange
psionic powers. Males and females are similar in
size averaging 1.5 metres in height and weighing 55
kilograms. Little else is known of this group since they
fled from Lair over a 1,000 years ago.
Roth Thokken: This subspecies settled in the Angfutsag
sector and although they look similar to the Nakagun,
they are even more peculiar. Their psionic powers are
said to be even stranger and more powerful. Further to
this, all Roth Thokken are permanently blind from birth.
This superstitious group live in seclusion and are known
to perform bizarre rituals using psionic senses unknown
to anyone outside their group.

SOCIETY

The Vargr are a dynamic people, their governments
and businesses constantly changing with the loyalties
and goals of individual Vargr. Many humans see this as
anarchic but this is not the case at all. Vargr society is
deeply rooted in charisma, loyalty, racial pride and the
need for companionship and approval.

Genetic Instinct

In addition to many of the physical features of their
canine ancestors, the Vargr have also inherited some
behavioural traits as well; few Vargr are aware of how
deeply rooted these traits are in their subconscious. Presentient canines constantly crave approval, much more

172

so than humans and most other races. This can be seen
in nature where wild dogs or wolves seek approval from
the pack’s leader, where the cooperative nature greatly
improves their chance of survival. Likewise, domestic
canines seek approval from their master, which makes
them very loyal and easy to train.
It was these qualities that the Ancients wanted to
exploit, genetically engineering the genus Canis to
become intelligent beings to serve the needs of the
Ancients. Canine traits are so strong in the Vargr that
they have changed little in the evolution of the species
and are evident in the behaviour of all Vargr today.

Packs

The genetic instinct of Vargr is most evident in the pack
culture of their society. Like many species, they seek the
companionship of others for comfort and security, the
gregarious nature of Vargr giving them a drive to connect
with others and a need to belong to other groups. This
arises from both their natural need for approval and
the racial pride that unites all Vargr with a sense of
solidarity and camaraderie.
Vargr packs vary greatly in form and function. Some
common types include the family pack, businesses,
religions, recreational groups, governments, military
units and the infamous corsair bands. Most Vargr
belong to several packs, loyal to each one for different
reasons and proud to have many commitments and
loyal brethren.
Individuality is still important within the pack and each
member strives to become the most dominant. This
contest for leadership is based upon an individual’s
charisma and influence but although members of a
pack are competitive, the good of the pack comes first
and members know they can always count on their
peers for assistance, companionship and support in
times of need.
Large organisations usually consist of several packs
divided by roles or specialities. Where several packs
exist in a single organisation, a hierarchy exists where
the leader of each answers to the primary pack. This
takes power struggles to new levels as individuals
compete not only for dominance within their own pack
but with other packs in the organisation – a leader of
one pack might seek to become the leader of another
or may try to make their pack more dominant within
the organisation.

Charisma & Loyalty

At the heart of Vargr psychology is the concept of
charisma, which Vargr define as an individual’s prestige
and force of personality that attracts other Vargr.

