This, combined with pack mentality, is the foundation
for Vargr society and the driving force behind their
constant change in leadership, whether in a pack of
scavengers or government.

Proponents of the ‘low superiority’ school maintain they
were the original sapient race on Terra and the Ancients
moved them to Lair so the Vargr would not interfere with
the genetic engineering of humans from Terran apes.

The Vargr desire to constantly increase their charisma
makes them a competitive race, always seeking to
improve their standing amongst the pack. It is this
charisma that gives them their focus and drive. Whilst
many humans see this as a flaw, it is one of the reasons
that Vargr have become such a prominent race.

As with all things in Vargr society, there are numerous
other ideas supported by scientists, politicians and
religious groups. A minority of Vargr even take the view
that their origins make them an inferior race and these
troubled souls feel they have to prove their worth by
performing dangerous and extraordinary actions.

Charisma is gained or lost by word and deed, and Vargr
are keen to perform special or difficult duties if it means
they will gain standing by doing so. This behaviour means
that Vargr always try their best in the hope of gaining
charisma and the fear of losing it – very few Vargr are lazy
or procrastinate when they have duties to perform.

With so many takes on racial pride, it is important to
note that most Vargr lie somewhere between these
extremes and are content in the knowledge that they are
a special and unique race – from humble beginnings
they were chosen by the Ancients and eventually
reached the stars.

Vargr always look to the most charismatic person in
the pack for leadership and that individual will only
maintain position by proving they have the ability and
force of personality to lead the pack. All Vargr respect
a leader who has a greater charisma than their own
and likewise have a responsibility to those with a lower
charisma who submit to their authority.

Family

A leader might not have the skills to effectively lead the
pack but charisma gains them the loyalty of everyone in
the group. Contrary to popular belief, a Vargr’s loyalty
is very strong and will only waver if the pack leader
fails to meet the needs of their people and thus lose
charisma. Loyalties may change but never quickly and
never without reason. It is this that seems to have gone
unnoticed by outsiders who regard the Vargr’s loyalty as
volatile at best and mutinous at worst.
Should a leader be found to lack the skills to lead
their people, members will look to others within the
pack who have the charisma to take control. This may
seem strange and unproductive to other races but this
behaviour always ensures the strongest person is in
charge of a pack.

Racial Pride

Vargr see themselves as a unique people, a race chosen
by the Ancients and uplifted to be an intelligent race. In
their eyes, this makes the Vargr special and sets them
apart from the other major races, since only Vargr have
such esteemed origins.
Some Vargr believe in racial superiority, which has led to
two schools of thought on the subject. Those who follow
the so called ‘high superiority’ school propose that Vargr
were designed to be better than other races, that the
Ancients designed them to be nothing less than perfect.

The family is a pack of blood relatives and it is in this
environment that pups first learn about pack structure,
quickly learning to recognise charisma and develop
their own personality. Young members of a family
must show the proper respect to the family leader
and establish their own position within the pack by
improving their charisma. This learning curve is crucial
training for a young pup.
In agrarian or pre-industrial societies, the family
pack tends to be larger than those of more advanced
cultures. On a low technology world, a larger family
means a greater number of hunters, essential to the
pack’s survival. However, if a pack grows too large
it becomes less effective, especially if the pups and
elderly outnumber more able-bodied members as it
places an additional burden on the hunters, threatening
the survival of the pack. Larger packs are also more
noticeable, making it difficult to hunt wildlife.
Vargr families become smaller as technology increases
and the economy moves towards industry. Industrial
based societies require large workforces so parents spend
much of their time working and less raising families.
Raising pups in the family environment is essential for
their development, so most Vargr females on these worlds
will only give birth to one litter in their lifetime.
In higher technology societies where much of the
workforce is automated, the demands on family
members are reduced and they are better able to raise
their pups in a more traditional manner. Female Vargr
on these worlds will therefore give birth to several litters
and the average family size is more akin to that of preindustrial societies.

173

