Beliefs

Religion is as diverse and varied as every other aspect of
Vargr society. Many religions stem from the Vargr’s pride
in their origins and the Ancients are venerated as gods
by many groups. What humans would consider orthodox
religions also exist in great numbers but they are not as
common as belief in the Ancients.
Many who do devote themselves to a religion will
continue in their chosen career but some will also
change profession to better follow their faith; this is
especially true of loners who are more likely to seek the
companionship of fellow believers. Religious leaders
often have a background as emissaries but this is not
always the case.
Church of the Chosen Ones: This religion was established
in the year 895 of the Imperial calendar and for a short
period it was one of the largest and most influential
religious movements in Vargr society. Although the
religion is not as popular as it once was most Vargr have
heard of the Church of the Chosen Ones.
The religion postulates that not only did the Ancients
create the Vargr by genetically engineering Terran
canines but that the Ancients continued to return
to Lair to make improvements until they created the
superior race that Vargr are today. To followers of the
Church of the Chosen Ones, this also explains the
existence of the Vargr subspecies; they were mistakes
abandoned by the Ancients.
Congregations tend to live in their own communes and
each commune has its own particular traditions, dress
codes and practices, such as wearing only white clothes,
wearing an embroidered sash or adorning themselves
with a particular marking or tattoo.
The popularity of this religion has declined in recent
years and there are now thought to be around 20
branches remaining in the Extents, although each
branch consists of multiple congregations. Infrequent
surges of popularity boost the number of followers
but not in sufficient quantity to rival its popularity in
the early days. Many scientists have discredited the
claims made by the Church but this has not swayed the
remaining fanatics from their beliefs.
Faarzgaen: This is a religion of fanatics who believe
in a single god, Faarzgaen, who continually guides all
who worship him and determines how they should live
and act; if a follower of Faarzgaen is hungry then he
wants them to eat, if they are tired then he wants them
to sleep and if they have the urge to take a life then
Faarzgaen wants them to kill someone.

174

Followers of this faith believe that Faarzgaen is the one
true god and his religion thus the only true faith. Anyone
who does not follow Faarzgaen is a heretic. Worshippers
of Faarzgaen spread their religion by forcing it upon
others using fear and violence.
This fanatical behaviour has lead worshippers of
Faarzgaen to believe that they are the only ones fit
to rule the universe and have become a powerful
organisation feared by many Vargr. On some worlds the
religion has become a ruling power, oppressing their
subjects until they submit to the one true faith.
The religion and the few states they control are run
by seven overlords known as Kafaazgaen. To become
a Kafaazgaen a priest must commit a number of
violent acts, including the assassination of a serving
Kafaazgaen, in order to take that position.

INFIGHTING

Infighting is unique to Vargr and is more than just
combat; it forms part of their struggle for power and
charisma within their pack. There are times when
dominance cannot be decided by charisma alone
and in these situations the Vargr will succumb to the
more primitive means of tooth and claw. Infighting is
frequently used to settle disputes and insults.
Infighting is similar to a duel but participants are fighting
for charisma and loyalty, not honour and pride. This may
seem a small distinction to humans but to Vargr and
indeed the Aslan (who duel for honour), the difference is
considerable. Infighting is not so much about injuring or
killing the opponent but getting them to submit and thus
proving the victor is the most dominant.
Whenever two Vargr are battling for dominance within
a pack and loyalty is divided or a Vargr questions the
abilities or leadership of another, one challenges the
other to fight. Such infighting is not necessarily for the
role of pack leader but simply for one Vargr to raise their
position above another and slowly increase charisma
and status within the pack. A pack member might also
challenge someone of lower charisma to prove they
remain superior to their subordinates.
Individuals who constantly challenge their comrades will
usually lose charisma and in some cases are cast out
from the pack. Exploiting one’s prowess in combat as an
easy way of gaining charisma is seen as un-Vargr and not
tolerated. Infighting has its rightful place but it is not an
alternative to charisma; it is just one of many aspects of
the Vargr struggle for dominance.

