DRESS, ART &

ARCHITECTURE

Due to Vargr eyesight being less sensitive to colour,
their clothes and decorations are often made up of
bright colours that appear garish to humans. Clothes
tend to be tight fitting and practical but cloaks and
capes are not uncommon. Most Vargr prefer to forego
footwear but this varies between locations and cultures;
shoes and boots tend to be used for practical reasons,
such as with armour or in regions with rough terrain
and cold climates.
Art follows a similar trend, with a preference toward
bright colours using a variety of styles and techniques.
Paintings and sculptures often depict charismatic
leaders and renowned Vargr packs. Corsair bands are
also a common subject of paintings, stories and poetry.
As one would expect from such a diverse race, Vargr
architecture varies widely not just between locations and
cultures but within the same settlements. Designs are
typically asymmetrical and have a lot of ornamentation.
The garish colours of one building often clash with
neighbouring structures, making Vargr cities appear
chaotic and disorganised.

The gregarious nature of Vargr manifests in their
architecture, resulting in wide communal areas and
open plan offices. This can be seen on a greater scale
with most settlements having large open areas for
markets and recreational uses.
An important feature of most buildings is that they
are rarely designed with a particular use in mind. The
continuous changes in Vargr society mean buildings
constantly change in ownership and function. For this
reason, it is important that a building can be easily
adapted to the needs of its occupants; a building might
be a government office one day, a junk dealership the
next and a month later it could be a fine restaurant.

Tattoos and Markings

A popular tradition amongst Vargr, especially in military
and corsair packs, is tattooing their bodies or painting
armour to show past deeds. Pack members will use
a variety of symbols painted in different colours to
represent deeds such as victories, kills and leadership
achievements. Rank and pack insignia are also common
tattoos. Like so many aspects of Vargr culture, tattoos
are constantly changing as new victories are won and
achievements gained.

175

