Tattoos are generally applied to the face where the fur
is short. Some Vargr have been known to dye their fur
or shave patches but most will simply paint symbols
on their armour, clothes and weapons. In this context,
symbols painted on items are often referred to as
tattoos, as there is no distinction between the two.
Although this tradition is followed by many Vargr, it is
by no means practiced by all groups. Some individuals
abstain from the custom, preferring deeds to speak
for themselves rather than displaying them in such an
obvious manner.
The meaning of symbols and colours varies from one
pack to the next and in some groups the location of
the design is also relevant. In most packs, the meaning
is derived from only one characteristic of colour,
location or symbol; the remaining aspects are simply an
expression of the individual.

EMISSARIES

The number and variety of Vargr governments makes
diplomacy very difficult. Disputes arise over a
variety of matters and when two or more charismatic
leaders (of packs or of governments) are involved,
the situation can quickly resort to violence without
intervention of intermediaries.
A specialised group of mediators, known as emissaries,
has arisen to meet the needs of disputing parties.
Emissaries are highly skilled diplomats, much sought
after for their experience in negotiation and diplomacy.
These individuals are greatly respected and well paid
for their services. They are used as much in corporate
dealings as they are for political negotiations.
Other races on the borders of Vargr territories are often
subject to raids by independent corsair bands. This
has led to misunderstandings and political disputes
since few outsiders understand the Vargr’s apparent
lack of respect for authority. In these situations
emissaries are frequently called to mediate on behalf
of Vargr governments. Emissaries are usually successful
in creating the peace or at least avoiding further
hostilities. In the cases of raids and unprovoked attacks,
reparations are usually given to the victim as a gesture
of good will.

BUSINESS

Vargr do not have anything approaching the
megacorporations found in other races, as the
hierarchy and remote authority necessary to run a large
corporation is something that simply does not work with

176

their mindset. Vargr workers who are unsatisfied with
their jobs or feel undervalued or underpaid also have a
tendency to simply look for new leadership within the
company or find a new job more suited to their needs.
The few larger corporations that are successful have
become so by splitting their organisation into smaller
subsidiary companies, thus reducing remote authority
and keeping the feel of a smaller company, at least as
far as workers are concerned. These businesses are most
successful when working on the subsector level and most
operate in the shipping and interstellar trade markets.
As one would expect with the Vargr, businesses come
and go with astonishing frequency, much more so than
any other race. This might have a negative impact on
trade but the environment prevents capital from being
tied up in unprofitable businesses. The nature of Vargr
business has made a number of professions both
lucrative and essential to the Vargr economy.
Junk Dealer: The junk dealer, also known as secondhand equipment merchant, is one of the most common
professions in Vargr society. Anyone can set themselves
up as a junk dealer with minimal collateral and there
is never a shortage of second-hand goods. As Vargr
businesses rise and fall, leftover goods and unwanted
equipment is always available for those who know where
to look.
Some businesses will search for goods but without
knowledge and connections this can be a time
consuming task, especially if rare or specific items are
required. The majority of second-hand equipment is
purchased quickly and cheaply by junk dealers who
then sell it on to corporations or scroungers, making a
significant profit in the process.
Many junk dealers are independent traders with small
to medium size establishments but larger second
hand dealerships also exist with vast warehouses and
numerous dealers on the payroll.
Scrounger: Scroungers are specialist brokers, working
both independently or for corporations. Companies with
a good scrounger on the payroll will save a lot more
money than it costs to hire their services.
Bargains can be found throughout the Vargr Extents but
the right skills and knowledge are required to locate
them. Scroungers are experts in this field and can find
just about anything a company or individual might need,
from raw materials to high-tech goods. They will often
purchase goods from junk dealers but also cut out the
middleman if the opportunity arises.

