Contingency Expert: A contingency expert fulfils a
similar role to the scrounger. Businesses rely on each
other to provide goods and services; in the fluctuating
world of Vargr business it is essential to ensure that
if one supplier stops trading, a replacement can be
found quickly and efficiently to reduce the loss of
sales and productivity.

Economy

The many governments and states of Vargr society
mean that there is no global economy in the Extents.
Due to the rapid rise and fall of Vargr businesses, the
local economy of each government and world fluctuates
wildly. Prices can vary from place-to-place by as much
as a third.
Vargr will usually haggle and negotiate to get a higher
salary or a better price for whatever goods or services
they are purchasing. Busy areas of trade such as
spaceports and marketplaces are a cacophony of
raised voices with bartering, intense negotiations and
angry consumers.
Due to the fragile nature of Vargr economics, bank
lending and finance options are virtually unheard of.
Investment opportunities are also uncommon for the
same reasons. Businesses are so unstable that lenders
and investors must not only be convinced of a return
but will demand some sort of collateral to protect
their investment.

THE MILITARY

The Vargr military conforms to no standard conventions.
Local governments have their own forces, each varying
in organisation, technology and strength. Larger states
might control all the military of their member worlds
or rely on local forces. For most worlds, the military
comprises of three divisions: army, navy and marines.
Each military division consists of a number of packs,
with each pack forming a unit. Tactics tend to operate
on a unit level depending on the abilities of the current
leader and change with leadership within the pack.
Units are often grouped into a variety of regiments,
battalions, platoons and squads but, being Vargr, this is
not always the case. Larger military organisations tend
to have a more formal hierarchy but again, this varies
between governments.
Ranks vary from one group to another. Many divisions
have their own arbitrary ranks issued on a whim, whilst
others have a more formal hierarchy in place. The usual
infighting occurs within the military as it does in other
Vargr packs and individuals are promoted on force of

personality rather than skills in leadership or battle.
The result of this is that officers are often promoted to
commanding positions but lack the skills needed for
military leadership and tactics.
In addition to the power struggles within a pack, there
is also a jockeying for position between different units.
Some packs seek to become more dominant than others
in their division and leaders jockey for command of more
prestigious units, often bringing members of their own
pack with them.
Once in a commanding position, leaders must live up
to the expectations that earned them the promotion.
Leaders who fail to command their force to success are
soon replaced by more charismatic individuals.
The result of the Vargr mentality means their military
is somewhat volatile. This instability not only affects
organisation and leadership but can have a great impact
on morale as well. It is not uncommon for charismatic
individuals to gain popularity in resisting higher
authorities for a number of reasons, causing disputes and
strikes to demand better conditions, equipment and pay.
Mutinies have also been known to occur but such
extreme shifts in loyalty are infrequent. These acts
have been known to turn the tide of battle as units and
entire battalions have deserted or even changed sides
during a conflict; such is the nature of Vargr. However,
this behaviour is discouraged and considered treason by
many governments; punishments can be quite severe.
Humans find this concept of leadership difficult to
understand but from the Vargr perspective it makes
perfect sense; if a leader proves they are not capable
of command it is important to replace them with a
charismatic leader who can, especially in combat.

CORSAIR BANDS

When most people think of Vargr, the first thing that
comes to mind is the corsair bands that operate
throughout the Extents and along Imperial borders.
Indeed, this imagery comes foremost to many Vargr as
well but whereas humans see pirates raiding free traders
and merchant ships, the Vargr are more likely to see
glamour and prestige.
Although the life of a corsair is appealing to Vargr,
these space pirates constitute less than 10% of Vargr
society. Unfortunately, all Vargr have been tarred with
the same brush despite the fact that corsairs are hated
and feared by many Vargr who have chosen a more
honest way of life.

177

