Corsair raiders do not abide by any laws, nor do they
recognise boundaries. This is made possible by the
fractured governments and lack of centralised policing
within the Vargr Extents. Without coordinated law
enforcement, corsairs are free to prey on the trade
routes with little opposition. When they do encounter
resistance they can avoid legal issues by simply crossing
a border.
Outside of Vargr space, corsair bands face a much
tougher prospect as most other races have dedicated
law enforcement and military patrols to prevent acts
of piracy. Imperial law ensures criminals cannot
escape justice by simply crossing the border into other
territories and this means only the largest and most
experienced bands prey on ships beyond the Extents.
A number of larger corsair bands have become so
powerful and organised that they rival the might of some
governments. It is not uncommon for groups of renown
to be hired as mercenaries to bolster the defences of
smaller worlds or work alongside military forces. Many of
these large corsair bands also have their own bases.
Smaller bands also exist, right down to single-ship
crews. These independent raiders focus their efforts on
weaker vessels ignored by larger corsair bands. These
targets are also safer for small raider packs as there is
little threat of reprisal by larger bands who also operate
in the region.
These larger corsair bands operate much like military
groups but with one significant advantage; a corsair
band will usually have a strong leader who is both
charismatic and skilled, whereas military leaders obtain
the position by popularity but often lack the skills
and tactical knowledge that come with experience.
This results in the usual Vargr struggle for dominance
amongst military units, whilst corsair leaders have
proven themselves time and again making their pack
more stable and outsiders have difficulty understanding
how a group of pirates can have a more solid hierarchy
than other Vargr packs.

VARGR IN THE

IMPERIUM

There are numerous Vargr scattered throughout Imperial
space. Settlements with a significant Vargr population
usually have a Vargr quarter where most live and socialise
and such areas tend to be loud and colourful with an
atmosphere much like any other Vargr community.

178

Vargr in the Imperium behave much as they do in the
Extents. They still lack respect for authority but will
follow a charismatic human leader just as they would
a Vargr. However, the usual jockeying for charisma and
power is not so prevalent as such behaviour tends not
to be so beneficial in human culture and rarely results
in promotion.
Vargr also discover that laws are enforced more strongly
in the Imperium and although the Vargr disrespect
for the law remains they become more mindful of it,
learning what they can get away with and what they get
arrested for. This is often a case of trial an error and
most Vargr who travel to Imperial space will be charged
with at least one misdemeanour before taking a more
active view of the law.

LANGUAGE AND

NAMING

The diversity of Vargr society extends to their language.
There are hundreds of different languages and dialects
spoken throughout the Extents. Governments tend
to favour a particular language but this is not always
the case and in some regions a common language is
adopted to aid in trade and negotiations.
Vargr usually choose their own name when they come of
age. Some choose a name significant to them such as
an important event or achievement in their life, whilst
others are chosen arbitrarily and do not necessarily have
any meaning.

Non-Verbal Communication

Like other races, body language plays in important role
in Vargr communication. However, Vargr have a limited
range of facial expressions so they use posture, bearing,
ears and tails to convey unspoken meaning.
Much of a Vargr’s body language is subconscious and
can often give a clear indication as to their emotional
state. This can obviously make Vargr quite vulnerable,
so they will often use additional gestures to distract
others from seeing such strong emotional signals.

