MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

Most of your unit are killed in battle, for which you blame your pack leader. With no other survivors to witness
their lack of skill, they have you removed from the service; lose CHA –1 and gain them as an Enemy.

3

You are sent to a hostile region to battle guerrilla fighters and rebels. You are discharged due to stress or injury.
Increase Recon or Survival by +1 and lose CHA –1.

4

You discover your pack leader is involved in illegal activities such as weapon or drug smuggling. You can join
their ring and gain them as an Ally before the inevitable investigation gets you discharged and you lose CHA –1,
or you can testify against them gaining CHA +1 but they becomes an Enemy and you are discharged as part of
the official cover-up.

5

You fail a critical mission. You lose CHA –1 and leave the service.

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

You are assigned to a hostile planet. Gain one of Vacc Suit 1, Engineer (any) 1 or Survival 1.

4

You are assigned to a war-torn urban region. Gain one of Stealth 1, Streetwise 1, Persuade 1 or Recon 1.

5

Your pack is given a special assignment or duty. Gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll for this career or CHA +1.

6

You are thrown into a brutal ground war and your leader is killed. Roll END 8+ to avoid injury; if successful,
you gain one level in Gun Combat (any) or Leadership and roll CHA 8+ to become the pack leader (gaining an
automatic promotion).

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (page 204).

8

You receive advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to increase any one skill you already have by one level.

9

Surrounded by a superior enemy, you hold out until relief arrives. Gain +1 to your next Advancement roll or
CHA +1.

10

You are assigned to a peacekeeping role. Gain one of Admin 1, Investigate 1, Recon 1 or CHA +1.

11

You save your pack leader’s life in battle. Gain them as an Ally and receive DM+2 to your next Advancement roll.

12

You perform a heroic deed in battle. Gain CHA +1 and an automatic promotion.

