MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

You make a terrible mistake in your job causing a halt in production or the loss of a client. Lose CHA –1 and
suffer DM-2 to your next Advancement roll.

3

Hard times caused by a poor economic climate puts you out of a job. You must change your career.

4

The company you work for is suspected of illegal activities. You can aid in the investigations and gain DM+2 to
the Qualification check for your next career or refuse and gain an Ally.

5

A revolution, attack or other unusual event forces you to leave the planet. Roll CHA 7+ to find a new pack or
receive DM-2 to your next Qualification roll.

6

A power struggle in your pack ends badly for you. Lose CHA –1 and gain a Rival.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

A power struggle in your pack forces you to choose sides. Roll CHA 8+ to support the winning side and gain
DM+2 to your next Advancement roll. If you fail, suffer DM-2 to your next Survival roll.

4

You enrol for further education. Roll on the Advanced Education skills table whether you qualify or not.

5

Your corporation or organisation grows. Gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll.

6

You receive advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to increase one skill you already have by one level.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (page 204).

8

You learn a corporate secret or political scandal. If you choose to profit by this, gain DM+2 to your next
Advancement roll, DM+1 to one Benefits roll from this career, lose CHA –1, and gain one of Streetwise 1,
Deception 1 or a criminal Contact.

9

Your pack leader praises you on your excellent work. Gain DM+2 to your next Advancement roll.

10

Your leader is losing the respect of the pack. Roll CHA 10+ to become the new pack leader and gain an
automatic promotion.

11

You support a pack member who becomes the new leader. Gain an Ally and DM+4 to your next Advancement roll.

12

You are well respected by your pack and superiors. Gain CHA+1 or an automatic promotion.

