MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

Your failed negotiations earn you a bad reputation. You are forced out of your position and lose CHA –1.

3

You are outclassed by another Emissary. Gain him as a Rival and roll CHA 6+ to avoid losing CHA –1 in the
fallout.

4

Failed dealings force your pack to look for new leadership. Roll CHA 8+ to support the winning side. If you fail,
suffer DM-2 to your next Survival roll.

5

An assassin attempts to take your life. Roll END or Melee (infighting) 8+. If you fail, roll on the Injury table. If
you succeed, you may continue this career.

6

An opposing Emissary attempts to humiliate you. Roll Broker, Diplomat or Persuade 10+ to outmanoeuvre
them. If you succeed, you may continue in this career and you gain them as a Rival. If you fail, you are forced
out of your position and gain them as an Enemy.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table, but you are not ejected from this career.

3

Negotiations are going badly. You can either cut your losses and lose CHA –1 or roll Broker, Diplomat or
Persuade 10+. If you fail, you lose CHA –1, one Benefit roll from this career and suffer DM-2 to your next
Advancement roll. If you succeed, gain CHA +1 and DM+2 to your next Advancement roll.

4

You successfully negotiate a difficult situation and are rewarded. You gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll.

5

Through your many dealings and negotiations you have met many influential people. Roll CHA 8+ to gain an
Ally. If you fail, you gain a Contact instead.

6

You are given advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to gain any skill you are eligible for in this career.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Life Events table (see page 204).

8

Your dedication and diligence to your career earns you one of Advocate 1, Broker 1 or Diplomacy 1.

9

During some high stake negotiations, a charismatic pack leader from the opposing side offers you a lucrative
deal to switch sides. If you accept, gain one Benefit roll and your previous employer becomes a Rival. If you
refuse, your current employer becomes an Ally and you gain DM+2 to your next Survival roll.

10

Your continued success has earned you much respect from your pack. Roll CHA 10+ to become pack leader
and gain an automatic promotion.

11

Your successful career has placed you in a favourable position. Gain one Benefit roll or DM+4 to your next
Advancement roll.

12

You have done exemplary work for your pack and organisation. Gain an automatic promotion and CHA +1.

