MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

A charismatic criminal under investigation offers you a deal. Accept and you are forced from this career and
lose CHA –1. Refuse and you must roll on the Injury table and gain an Enemy.

3

An investigation goes critically wrong, ending your career. Roll Advocate 8+. If you succeed you may keep the
Benefit roll from this term. If you fail you lose CHA –1.

4

A failed investigation forces your pack to find new leadership. Roll CHA 8+ to be on the winning side and
remain in this career. If you fail, you leave your pack and career.

5

You uncover important information and people want to kill you for it. Gain one Enemy and suffer DM-2 to your
next Survival roll if you remain in this career.

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

An investigation takes a dangerous turn. Roll Investigation or Streetwise 8+. If you fail, roll on the Mishap
table. If you succeed, gain CHA +1 or increase one of the following skills by one level: Deception, Jack-of-allTrades, Stealth, Streetwise, Tactics (military).

4

You establish a network of contacts. Gain a number of Contacts equal to your CHA modifier (minimum of 1).

5

You are rewarded for a successful mission. Gain DM+1 to any Benefit roll from this career.

6

You are given advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to gain any skill you are eligible for in this career.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (page 204).

8

An investigation uncovers a warehouse full of illegal goods. You may choose to profit from your discovery and
roll Deception 8+. If you fail, lose CHA –1 and suffer DM-4 to your next survival roll. If you succeed, gain one
Benefit roll.

9

You go undercover to pursue an investigation. Pick another career to use as your cover and roll Deception 8+. If
you fail, roll on the Mishap table for that career. If you succeed, roll on any specialist skill table for the chosen
career and gain DM+2 to your next Advancement in this career.

10

During a dangerous investigation you save the life of one of your pack members. Gain an Ally.

11

Your successes have earned you much respect from your superiors. Gain DM+4 to your next Advancement roll.

12

You solve a big case or uncover a conspiracy against your employers. You are automatically promoted and gain
CHA +1.

