MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

You fail to provide for your pack or find suitable territory. Lose CHA –1.

3

Another Loner is operating in the area and you struggle to be successful. Gain him as an Enemy.

4

You crash on an uninhabited world or are stranded in a hostile region. Gain one of Animals 1, Recon 1 or
Survival 1. You may remain in this career but you lose all Benefit rolls for this term.

5

You are ambushed by a corsair band and lose all Benefit rolls for this term. Roll END 6+. If you fail, roll on the
Injury table.

6

There is a gap in your memory and you have no idea what happened to you.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

A patron offers you a job. If you accept the offer you gain DM+4 to your next Qualification roll and gain him as
a Contact.

4

Your independence has forced you to rely on your own specialist skills. Roll EDU 6+ to gain one skill from your
specialist skill table.

5

Your self-reliance allows you to adapt to all situations. Gain the Jack-of-all-Trades skill.

6

You are boarded or attacked by a corsair band but you have nothing of value. Roll CHA 6+. If you succeed, the
Corsairs will offer you a position in their band and you automatically qualify for that career. If you fail the roll or
refuse their offer, roll on the Injury table.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (page 204).

8

You find some salvage or abandoned goods on your travels. Gain one Benefit roll.

9

You have a successful expedition. Gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll for this career.

10

You thrive on adversity and learn the wisdom of the old saying ‘What doesn’t kill you will only make you
stronger’. Roll Survival 8+. If you succeed, gain +1 to STR, DEX or END. If you fail, roll on the Injury table.

11

You excel at your career. Gain DM+2 to your next Survival roll and DM+2 to your next Advancement roll.

12

You hit the mother lode. You are automatically promoted and gain CHA +1.

