MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

You make telepathic contact with an unknown entity. You go missing for 1D days and have no memory of the
event. If the roll for number of days was 5 or 6 you also lose PSI –1.

3

Your pack discovers you are a psion and do not look favourably on your kind. You are humiliated and outcast
from the pack and the community. You lose CHA –1 and your next Survival roll suffers DM-2 penalty.

4

You visit a world where psionics are outlawed. You are arrested and your time in prison forces you to leave
this career.

5

You join a pack of other psions and lose the power struggle for leadership. Gain a Rival.

6

You are experimented on by a corporation, government or psionic institute. Roll 1D. On a 1-2 you suffer an
injury; roll on the Injury table. On a 3–4 you lose PSI –1. On a 5–6 there are no complications but you are
forced to leave this career.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

You make telepathic contact with an unknown entity. You go missing for 1D days and have no memory of the
event. If the roll for number of days was 5–6 you also lose PSI –1.

4

You come into contact with an alien device. Roll 1D. On a 1–2 you are injured; roll on the Injury table. On a
3–4 you gain one level in a Talent you already know. On a 5–6 you gain PSI +1.

5

You excel as a psion; gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll from this career.

6

You receive advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any non-psionic related skill.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (see page 204).

8

You receive additional psionic training. Roll PSI 10+ to gain a new psionic talent. If you fail, gain one level in
Science (psionicology).

9

Your quick thinking and use of psionic abilities save the life of a pack member. Gain CHA +1 and an Ally.

10

You dedicate your spare time to psionic training. Gain PSI +1.

11

You befriend a mentor. Gain a Contact and DM+4 to your next Advancement roll.

12

You have a natural aptitude for psionics. You are automatically promoted.

