MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

2

A lab accident exposes you to a dangerous substance. Lose END –1.

3

An experiment goes critically wrong and causes the death of several pack members. You are forced to leave this
career and lose CHA –1.

4

You are assigned to an off-world laboratory but your ship crashes en route. Gain Survival 1 and roll END 8+. If
you fail, roll on the Injury table.

5

Your employers cancel your research. You may continue this career but you gain no Benefit rolls this term.
Alternatively, you can roll CHA 8+. If successful, you continue your work with another pack and can stay in this
career but gain an Enemy of your previous employer. If you fail, you are forced to leave this career.

6

A rival scientist discredits you or steals your research. Gain a Rival, lose CHA –1 and suffer DM-2 to your next
Survival roll.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

You are assigned to a military project. Gain a contact and one of Gun Combat, Engineer, Heavy Weapons or Science.

4

You are singled out and assigned to work on a secret project and forbidden to discuss this with anyone, even
members of your pack. Gain Deception 1.

5

You are assigned to an orbiting laboratory or lab ship. Gain one level in Vacc Suit or Athletics (dexterity).

6

You are given advanced training. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill you are eligible for in this career.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Vargr Life Events table (see page 204).

8

You work with several institutes and research facilities. Gain a number of Contacts equal to your CHA modifier
(minimum of 1).

9

You become friends with a brilliant but eccentric mentor. Gain an Ally and one level in any Science skill.

10

You make a minor scientific discovery. Gain CHA +1 and DM+1 to a Benefit roll from this career.

11

You work for a prestigious organisation. Gain DM+1 to a Benefit roll from this career and DM+4 to your next
Advancement roll.

12

You make a scientific breakthrough. You are automatically promoted and gain CHA +1.

