VARGR LIFE EVENTS

The life events of a Vargr Traveller are similar to those of a human, with the addition of pack events. The pack is an
important part of a Vargr’s life and events that affect the pack will often impact on the character.

Life Events
2D
2
3

4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

204

Event
Sickness or Injury: You are injured or sick. Roll on the Injury table.
Birth or Death: Someone close to you dies, such as a friend or pack member. Alternatively, someone
close to you gives birth (or is born!). You are involved in some fashion (father or mother, pack member
or similar).
Ending of Relationship: A romantic relationship involving you ends. Roll 1D. On a 1–2 your mate is killed.
On a 3–4 your mate leaves you. On a 5–6 you leave your mate.
New Relationship: You become romantically involved with an existing Ally, Contact, another Traveller or
pack member.
Pack Event: Roll on the Pack Event table. Travellers not currently in a pack roll CHA 7+ to join a pack or
gain a new Rival instead.
New Contact: You gain a new Contact.
Pack Event: Roll on the Pack Event table. Travellers not currently in a pack roll CHA 7+ to join a pack or
gain a new Ally instead.
Travel: You move to another world. You gain DM+2 to your next Qualification roll.
Good Fortune: Something good happens to you; you come into money unexpectedly, have a lifelong dream
come true or another stroke of good fortune. Gain a Benefit roll in your current career or gain CHA +1.
Crime: You commit a crime or are accused of a crime. Lose CHA –1.
Unusual Event: Something weird. Roll 1D:
1. Psionics: You have an encounter with a psionic phenomenon, such as a human psionic institute,
Zhodani agent or alien entity. You may immediately test your Psionic Strength and, if you qualify, take
the Psion career in your next term.
2. Aliens: You spent a long time amongst an alien race. Gain Language or Science 1 and a Contact from
that race.
3. Alien artefact: You come into possession of a curious piece of alien technology or an archaeological
relic.
4. Amnesia: There is a hole in your mind.
5. Contact with government: Your pack became well known and had dealings with a government leader.
Gain CHA +1.
6. Ancient technology: You have an item believed to be left behind by the Ancients when they first
brought the Vargr to Lair.

