Pack Events

These events affect the Traveller’s pack and
their position.
1D
Event
1
Failure: Your failure causes a serious problem for your pack such as the loss of a well-paid job or the death
of a pack member. Lose CHA –1. If you are the leader, your pack will look to new leadership until you can
redeem yourself.
2
Leave Pack: A change of situation, disagreement or lack of leadership forces you to leave your pack and
your job. Roll CHA 6+ to find another job in your current field or you are ejected from your career.
3
Join Pack: You join a new pack. This can be a change of job or employer within your career or you become
involved with another group such as a religion or recreational group.
4
Power Struggle: The leader of your pack does not live up to the reputation their charisma suggested and
you look to other members to replace them. Roll 1D. On a roll of 1–3 the current leader keeps their
position; gain a Rival. On a roll of 4–6 a new leader takes charge of the pack; gain an Ally.
5
Success: You are successful at a particularly difficult task and exceed all expectations. Gain CHA +1.
6
Leadership Challenge: The leader of your pack fails in their role and the pack looks for a new leader. Roll
Leadership or CHA 10+ to become the pack’s new leader. If you fail, another member is chosen and you
gain a Rival.

MUSTERING OUT

Benefits are granted at the end of career service, as
detailed on page 45 of the Traveller Core Rulebook.
Vargr have access to two new mustering out benefits.
Corsair: You receive a Ruguelka corsair with 25% of
the mortgage paid off on it. This corsair is identical to
the one on page 236 but you must roll 1D times on the
Outdated Ships Table on page 164 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook. If you roll this benefit again, an additional
25% of the mortgage has been paid off – if you roll this
benefit four times, the corsair will have no mortgage
and it will be all yours!
Trader: You receive a Koerae trader with 25% of the
mortgage paid off on it. This trader is identical to the
one on page 228 but you must roll 1D times on the
Outdated Ships Table on page 164 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook. If you roll this benefit again, an additional
25% of the mortgage has been paid off – if you roll this
benefit four times, the trader will have no mortgage
and it will be all yours!

205

