Gaining and Losing Charisma

A Vargr’s CHA can change many times during the course of an adventure, as long as they are responsible for the
success or failure of any given task; if a Traveller is using their initiative and making choices, the outcome of
those decisions can raise or lower their CHA.
For example, a pilot who misjumps due to a damaged jump drive would not be responsible for the failure,
whereas a pilot who destroys a superior vessel due to clever thinking and good piloting would be responsible for
the success and therefore have a chance to increase their CHA.
Charisma Gain: Providing the Traveller is responsible for a noteworthy success where they have shown initiative
or completed a task against difficult odds, roll 2D and add their CHA DM. If the total equals or exceeds their
current CHA, they gain CHA +1.
Charisma Loss: If the Traveller is responsible for a significant failure, roll 2D and add their CHA DM. If the total is
less than their current CHA, they lose CHA –1.
When making these checks, it is important that the Traveller has earned the gain or deserved the loss either
through their actions or decisions. Referees may also alter the task difficulty of these checks as appropriate to
the significance of the outcome. For example, a Traveller who saves the pack by spotting an ambush and taking
out the enemy might have an Average CHA check. A Traveller who causes their ship to collide with a mountain
through complete inattention might face a Formidable CHA check.
Travellers making CHA checks of this kind can opt to use Leadership instead if the Referee deems it appropriate
to the situation.
The pack mentality of the Vargr means they require leadership in order to function effectively, so anytime a pack
leader loses CHA or if the leader is injured or killed, the pack will look for new leadership. The new leader will
usually be the most charismatic member of the pack but individuals might join the struggle for power. If the new
leadership is contested, everyone vying for the position makes an opposed CHA or Leadership check and the
Traveller with the highest check wins the battle for leadership and instantly gains CHA +1.
A pack leader who is stripped of their position loses CHA –1. This reduction is in addition to the CHA loss caused
by the failure itself.

CHA and SOC

When travelling to other worlds, it will be likely
that Travellers with SOC will need to make CHA
checks and vice versa.
Whenever this is required, simply increase the
difficulty of the check by one level and use the
characteristic possessed by the Traveller. So, a
Traveller with the SOC characteristics called upon
to make an Average (8+) CHA check, will actually
make a Difficult (10+) SOC check.

206

