C E N T R A L

X

S U P P L Y

C A T A L O G U E

VARGR

Vargr equipment is, for the most part, similar in form
and function to human items. The main differences are
found in clothing and armour where the physiological
differences of the Vargr influence the design. Although
clothing and armour from other races can be modified
to fit Vargr, they prefer specifically made items that are
naturally more comfortable.
A large amount of Vargr equipment is second hand. There
is no status attached to buying new or second hand; the
abundance of second hand goods from failed companies
is simply part of Vargr life that creates a buyer’s market.
Junk dealers usually trade out of a warehouse, bulk
selling to corporations, but most have an open door policy
allowing anyone to browse their stock and purchase goods
as required. For those looking to bulk buy second hand
merchandise, finding an experienced scrounger can save
the buyer a lot of money.
There is less of a second hand market for personal and
domestic items such as clothes and house wares since
these items are less likely to become redundant when
companies fail. However, this market is still big by
human standards and second hand shops that cater to
the domestic market are a common sight in any Vargr
settlement, ranging from small independent retailers to
large megastores.

PURCHASING

EQUIPMENT

Due to the rapid rise and fall of Vargr businesses, the
local economy of each government and world fluctuates
wildly. When purchasing equipment and services,
Referees should alter the costs by up to ±15% by
adding 2D-7 x 3 percent to the list price.
Travellers wishing to purchase second hand items
can go direct to a junk dealer or hire the services of
a scrounger. Buying direct from a second hand store
or junk dealer will reduce the list cost by up to 40%,
which is determined by subtracting 5D+10 percent
from the modified list price; it is indeed entirely
possible that brand new goods on one Vargr world are
cheaper than buying the same items second hand on a
different world.
A scrounger will typically find required items with a further
2D percent price reduction but will take a commission of
1D percent of the total cost of goods purchased.

