C

H

A

P

T

E

R

-

S

E

V

E

N

T

E

E

THE ZHODANI

The Six Major Races are considered to be the Aslan,
Droyne, Hivers, K’kree, Vargr and Humaniti (merging
the Vilani, Solomani and Zhodani branches of the
human race into one). However, the Solomani and Vilani
branches would prefer to forget their Zhodani brethren
exist, as they have built their empire upon the science of
the mind. In a universe where science has finally given
all the ability to seek their maximum potential – to know
what pursuit can allow a person to unlock all he can be
– the Vilani and Solomani would prefer to not know.
The Zhodani found themselves on a world they did not
come from and experienced repeated disasters to forge
an interstellar empire. Along the way they have explored
a path 5,000 parsecs coreward from their homeworld,
drawn by an Ancient artefact to seek what lies at the
end. Because of the fear the Vilani and Solomani have
of psionics, the Zhodani and the Imperium have fought
four wars and a fifth seems imminent.

BIRTH OF

THE ZHODANI

Humans evolved on Terra – it therefore came as a great
shock for explorers from Earth to travel to the stars only
to find other humans not only there already but ruling
vast empires such as the First Imperium. It took many
centuries to establish that all the races of Humaniti
originated on Terra and were spread to worlds across
charted space some 300,000 years before by the
mysterious Ancients.
Of all these far-flung races of Humaniti, only three
developed jump drive technology on their own: the Vilani
of the First Imperium, the Solomani of Earth and the
Zhodani. By Imperial standards, the Zhodani are the
most alien.
The Zhodani have the longest unbroken stretch of
interstellar civilisation of any branch of Humaniti. Unlike
the Solomani and Vilani, they did not experience a
Long Night. However, they suffered their own tragedies,
having faced near-extermination in their pre-history,
overcoming that to achieve space flight, thrown back
to another dark age, only to rise again with a unique
civilisation based around the power of the mind.

N

