Even before they reached into space, the Zhodani
developed the science of psionics and integrated it into
their society. The result was a culture in which people
act, and also think, in a different way – and one that
possessed radically different values than those of the
Solomani and Vilani-dominated Third Imperium.

PHYSIOLOGY

While human in all respects, the Zhodani differ slightly
in appearance from those of Solomani or Vilani ancestry.
They tend to be tall and lithe, averaging close to two
metres in height and massing roughly 90 kilograms.
Complexions are predominantly swarthy and hair colour
usually black or brown. Blond hair is uncommon but a
mutation that occurred on Zhdant in the last 10,000
years made prematurely grey hair twice as common as
red hair.
Zhodani have 28 relatively large teeth in contrast to
the 32 possessed by Solomani and Vilani. This is not
especially noticeable but does mean a brief dental
examination can identify Zhodani (unless they have been
surgically disguised for operations within the Imperium).
All physiological characteristics of Zhodani are the result
of two factors; the original gene pool of humans who first
inhabited Zhdant and minor mutations or developments
that took place during the 300,000 years they lived on
their new homeworld. Their height and physical build are
both consequences of Zhdant’s 0.85 g surface gravity.
An evolutionary adaptation allows Zhodani to digest
certain proteins native to Zhdant, which are indigestible
by off-world humans; eating them may result in
digestive problems, allergic reactions or food poisoning.
Restaurants in regions frequented by non-Zhodani
humans (such as starports on the Zhodani-Imperial
border) have menus that mark which foods are or are
not appropriate for non-Zhodani. Likewise, caterers
at official diplomatic receptions will be aware of the
problem. Travellers eating elsewhere in the Consulate
should exercise caution.

SOCIETY

The fact that psionics make up a major part of everyday
life within the Consulate has had a profound influence
on the mental and emotional makeup of its people.
While they are human, their way of looking at life is
quite different from most non-psionic human cultures.
It has been said that psionics have made the Zhodani
Consulate government the most effective, powerful
and absolute tyranny in human history – and also the
happiest and most stable state to live in. Both of these
statements may be true.

In contrast to the patchwork quilt of planetary societies
making up the Third Imperium (whose techno-feudalism
is an overlay that affects interstellar politics but rarely
daily life), the worlds of the Consulate possess a
homogenous society that, despite minor variations for
local conditions, is essentially the same from planet-toplanet across its expanse.
Zhodani society is divided into three hereditary groups.
Nobles perform all elective governmental functions. They
are the only inhabitants of the Consulate allowed to vote
and be elected to office. Not all Nobles work in government
– some have senior military positions, manage large
hereditary estates or engage in artistic pursuits. Nearly 6%
of the Zhodani population are Nobles.
Intendants are the psi-trained middle class. They include
most bureaucrats, business and project managers,
merchant captains and officers, teachers, psychologists
and doctors, police and journalists (although some
Nobles may also be found in these positions). Many
serve as psionic troops (technically ‘commissioned
specialists’) or military officers. Intendants also act as
personal aides to individual Nobles. They make up about
15% of the population.
Proles are the commoners of Zhodani society and
the largest social class. Proles include farmers and
factory workers, supervisory and junior managers, small
business owners and shopkeepers, enlisted soldiers
and starship crews, scientists and technicians, and
common labourers. Just over 79% of the Zhodani
population are Proles.
There is a huge gulf between the lower-class Proles
and higher-class Intendants and Nobles. That divide
lies in psionics: possession and use of psionic abilities
define the upper classes. Nobles and Intendants
receive training in psionics from childhood. Only a high
degree of talent allows movement from the Prole to
Intendant class; when a Prole child is tested and found
to have high psionic strength, they are adopted into
an Intendant family and raised as an Intendant. Note
that children of Intendants and Nobles who have a low
degree of talent still receive psionic training and inherit
their parents’ social status. Similarly, Intendants and
Nobles who suffer a permanent loss of talent (such as
from an accident) do not lose their standing.
The Zhodani have been sexually egalitarian since
their dark ages, largely because of the emphasis
on mental rather than physical strength. Marriage
between different classes is illegal; liaisons do occur
but (especially between Prole and Noble) are socially
disapproved of.

243

