SPIRITUALISM AND

PHILOSOPHY

The Zhodani do not have religion for they do not
acknowledge, let alone worship, any sort of supreme
being, nor do they believe in an afterlife in any
conventional sense. Instead, they have what some
Imperial academics have termed a vaguely Buddhist/
vaguely ‘green’ philosophy. Tavrziansh (Morality’s Path)
is taught in schools as fact and endorsed by the state
as a component of ‘proper thought’. It is governed
by a small organisation, academic and secular, the
Fevranzhtavrchedl’ (Guardians of the Book), which every
50 years or so releases a slightly modified version of the
Fevranzhtavr (the Book of Morality).
Morality’s Path holds that life is a matter of duty. Duty
arose with life; even the humblest creatures have and
perform their duty, in an unconscious ‘state of grace’.
Nevertheless, even unintelligent life can fail in its
duty. A plague of rodents, philosophically, indicates
the rodents have forgotten their place and corrective
measures would be justified.
With intelligence comes the ability to understand
one’s duty to all life and most especially to one’s
own people. Duty to race takes priority over all other
duties but it is most praiseworthy to keep one’s duties
from coming into conflict. Zhodani can contemplate
war, even genocide, to protect their people but they
follow Morality’s Path better if they protect other life,
especially intelligent life, as well.
Duty is also the watchword of the individual. Everyone
understands that they have a duty to the race; Proles do
their duty in one way, Intendants and Nobles in another.
Part of this duty is to recognise the duties of others and
work to harmonise yours with theirs.
Death, to the Zhodani, is not a complete ending. The
evil (that is, failure of duty) of the individual spirit will
be lost. The good of the spirit will merge for a time with
the universal energy field, the Tavrian, and then return
to another Zhodani. The more dutiful the spirit, the more
personality (and possibly even memory) will remain; this
resembles reincarnation. An undutiful spirit diminishes
in proportion to its failures. However, actual demotion
on the ‘chain of being’ is rare. It would be a very bad
Noble who returned as a Prole and a very bad Prole who
returned as, for instance, an Imperial or rodent.
Dutiful spirits advance. Merit in Morality’s Path, is tied
with psionic power, at least as far as Zhodani spirits are
concerned (Morality’s Path recognises spirits and duty

244

of other races but has little to say about them). When
a Prole displays psionic power, it means they showed
great devotion to duty in their previous cycles and now
receives greater duties as a reward. Interestingly, this
is also a sign of past devotion in the family of such a
Prole. Witnessing and participating in the elevation of
a spirit is a sign that the parents themselves are also
worthy; by performing their duty to their talented child,
they confirm their worthiness. In some later cycle, their
spirits will rise as well.
The spread of psionic training in the Consulate, and
gradual increase in the proportion of Nobles and
Intendants, proves the Consulate as a whole is behaving
well and that the Zhodani as a whole are performing
their duty to all life.
Imperial scholars and political scientists feel certain
that Morality’s Path and its brief holy book, the Book
of Morality, were not organic developments of Zhodani
belief. Later versions of the book do not reflect
development of philosophy but rather a more skilled
presentation of the underlying message: ‘Conform, be
good and you might be a Noble someday.’

CUSTOMS

Zhodani society’s acceptance and use of psionics
strongly influences the way they think. It differs from
that of the average Imperial citizen in many respects.
Extensive psionic ability among the ruling classes
has permitted the Zhodani to weed out criminal
personalities and potential subversives early in life and
re-educate them as useful members of society. Thus,
there has been practically no serious crime or dissent
for thousands of years. One of the foremost values
(which Imperial humans notice most quickly) is the
fundamental honesty that pervades everything. Walls
protect from the elements rather than from intruders.
Locks are rare and most are safety devices to protect
children rather than anti-theft precautions. Laws deal
more with appropriate action than actual crime.
At first glance, the idea of negotiation, or bargaining, in
a psionic society appears impossible. Looking deeper
shows the practice is alive and well. Bargaining occurs
when market pressures produce varying prices for goods
and each side in the encounter tries to obtain the most
advantageous price for the transaction.
Negotiators with psionics might be able to read the mind
of their opponent, determine the worst acceptable offer
and then offer that. Obviously, a psionic negotiator has
a tremendous advantage but this model is simplistic. A

