Zhodani does not approach a negotiation with thoughts
of ‘what can I get out of this deal’ but rather ‘what do
I believe my work is truly worth’ or ‘what do I believe I
deserve for my labour and skill’. Anyone reading those
thoughts may still disagree and negotiate but there is no
dishonesty in the process.

ambition may seek to excel within a discipline, be it
as an artist, athlete, scientist, explorer or whatever.
Alternatively, they may seek economic success,
perhaps using earnings to open a small business or
working hard to impress superiors to win promotion and
higher salaries.

In any case, Zhodani view the use of psionics in such a
situation as unfair, much like reading a teacher’s mind
for answers to test questions.

However, this ambition has a definite ceiling: Proles
working within an organisation can attain junior
management, supervisory or non-commissioned officer
(NCO) positions that involve supervising other Proles
but they will never rise to policy-making, executive,
command or commissioned officer posts.

Regard for social superiors is a natural part of Zhodani
society, ingrained into everyone. Of course, for true
respect to persist, Nobles must earn it. Many do so in
a roundabout way – their Intendants make sure they
receive credit for a great many worthy activities. It is in
the best interest of an Intendant to make their superior
Noble look good because that Noble is responsible for
their promotion and advancement.
Zhodani are largely conformists. Everyone knows the
relatively narrow band of activities that all members of
society understand and approve of, and everyone strives
to act within that range. This extends to many areas of
culture. Even the range of acceptable dress (while wide)
is rarely exceeded. Interests rarely involve strange or
unsuitable subjects. Too much deviation from the norm
is considered an aberration and subject to re-education.
While Nobles have more freedom of thought than Proles,
they are still subject to human failings. Eccentric
Nobles, while rare, can and do still appear. Noble
children are subject to careful psionic supervision when
they are babies and pre-adolescents, so by the time
they are proficient enough to possess mind-shields
(usually as early adolescents) and have earned the right
to mental privacy, they have been thoroughly integrated
into Zhodani cultural mores.
Zhodani feel uncomfortable outside the Consulate,
where ‘liars and thieves are allowed to wander’ and
fundamental values of Zhodani society are not enforced.
Moreover, as Zhodani lack racial diversity, the average
Zhodani has had little experience with other types of
Humaniti, who appear strange or unusual to their eyes.
These two impressions tend to mingle, resulting in an
instinctive distrust of anyone with non-Zhodani features.

PROLES

The aspirations of the Proles are generally limited to
economic and personal goals – to succeed at whatever
they do and thus win financial security and personal
satisfaction. While many individuals are content to
do their jobs and enjoy happy lives, Proles with more

As such, the social ambition of Proles is sublimated into
ambition for their children – hopes that they (or their
grandchildren) will have great enough psionic power to
warrant training and elevation into the Intendant class.

INTENDANTS

As with Proles, an Intendant’s childhood education
will result from natural aptitudes being identified
and trained for a suitable and necessary career.
Additionally, psionic training is an important part of an
Intendant’s education.
After their studies (which may include education at
a local or off-world university or college), records will
be sent to those Nobles or public- and private-sector
organisations that express a need for new Intendants
with that career path. Usually, an Intendant will have
already made such contacts during their studies and
there will be a job waiting. Often, there will be a
number of choices, some of which may require travel
and interviews. Because the Intendant’s education is
geared toward the career, there is rarely any difficulty
finding a position.
Each Noble has one Intendant specifically assigned to
them; this direct relationship provides the Noble with
a capable secretary and assistant. Such positions are
avidly sought after by ambitious Intendants since much
of the fame and power of a strong Noble rubs off on
their personal Intendant.
Other Intendants take positions within corporations or
institutes, the military, professions that require psionics
(including psychologists, sociologists and teachers) or
as secondary personal assistants with specific duties or
assignments for Nobles. The remainder of the Intendant
population works for the generalised bureaucracy that
allows the Consulate government to function.

245

