Intendant ambition centres on elevation to the Noble
class. One method is through participation in the
Thequzdievl, the Psionic Games (see page 254), which
brings psionically powerful individuals to the Noble
class; perhaps 10% of Intendants are elevated to the
Nobility in this way. Another is as a reward for faithful
service; another 10% of Intendants achieve this, usually
near the end of their careers. Some Intendants strive for
such rewards, while others are reasonably happy with
their existing place in society.

NOBLES

Nobles have more freedom to shape their own destiny
than Intendants. From childhood, their education has
a focus on psionic training and fostering proper social
attitudes, with a more generalised ‘classical’ education
on leadership, psychology and personnel management.
From the Noble’s perspective, the most important skill
is to be a good manager, to know which Intendants are
doing a good job and which are simply time-servers,
and how to motivate them. Since Intendants are also
psionically trained (and thus, in many cases, their minds
cannot be casually read), motivating them requires more
skill than dealing with Proles whose thoughts are an
open book.
There are several ranks of Nobility in Zhodani society.
These do not come with hereditary government positions
(which are elective) but correlate with the influence (and
often wealth and estates) of a family. A member of the
higher ranks of the Nobility will be expected to live up to
his title; if they do so, they can benefit from its prestige
and the social connections that come with it to rise far
more rapidly through the military or be elected more
easily to higher office.

LAW

The character of crime in the Consulate is markedly
different from that of other societies. Responsibility
for law enforcement is maintained by the Tavrchedl’
(the Thought Police), who are as much concerned with
mental health as actual deeds.
Three broad categories of crime are recognised among
the Zhodani: inadvertent, incited and insane offenses.
The concept of premeditated crime for personal gain is
considered insane.
Inadvertent crime is an unintentional violation or
infraction of the law, usually resulting from inattention
or distraction. Examples include accidental violations
of traffic or other regulations, failure to return borrowed
materials to a lender or forgetting an appointment with

246

a Noble. For minor cases, the punishment is a small
fine, to compensate society and encourage the offender
to be more thoughtful in the future. If significant
damage or injury resulted, recompense to society can be
substantial and extreme cases may be taken as evidence
of wilful negligence requiring re-education, although
such are rare.
Incited crime is an infraction of a law brought about
by another. Often it results from an overreaction by an
individual to an inadvertent crime or misfortune. For
example, if someone responds violently to a perceived
insult or injustice, this in an incited crime; Zhodani
recognise that people can perform wrong actions out of
anger or despair. This mitigates wrongdoing, if the crime
is not unduly disproportionate to the situation but does
not excuse it. The solution is re-education – often, the
incited individual is seen as weak-willed or vulnerable
because of a character flaw or subconscious fault. Reeducation uses psychological and psionic techniques to
remedy this flaw, retraining the individual to recognise
similar provocations and avoid or properly handle them.
Sometimes, the investigation of an incited crime will
turn up an actual injustice: which will also be dealt with
in as fair a manner as possible.
Those who have been outside the Consulate and have
trouble behaving and thinking in a proper way when they
return sometimes fall into this category.
Insane crime covers most major crimes against property or
individuals, including theft, rape, premeditated assault,
treason and murder. Zhodani believe that any individual
who commits such a crime must be insane and sentences
for insane crimes call for re-education until the insanity
is cured. Sometimes the offender’s personality must
be rebuilt and, in rare instances, an execution will be
ordered if the individual appears incurable.
Note that someone caught thinking about performing
a crime may be arrested and judged guilty if mental
examination shows there was serious intent to commit
the actual deed.

JUSTICE

Technically, all Nobles are empowered to sit in judgment
of any accused criminal. In practice, Nobles not trained
in telepathy are expected to defer judgment until a
telepath can be found.
Cases are presided over by a Noble consul from the
community council of the area where the crime was
committed. If there are multiple Nobles on a council

