with telepathic abilities, the case will go to whichever
Noble is not otherwise occupied. Some councils rotate
judicial duties among themselves; others have a few
Nobles that specialise in them. If a region, facility
or ship is under military control, a Noble officer will
handle the case.
Procedures are informal, the Noble listens to the
case and considers the facts presented. In a dispute
between two parties, the Noble will hear both sides and
additional facts are gathered by reading the minds of
those involved. If necessary, the Noble may dispatch
Thought Police investigators to locate evidence,
suspects or additional witnesses. A judgment is made
and the decision recorded, usually sent telepathically to
an Intendant clerk in the local records centre.
Crimes committed by Nobles and Intendants are
treated as special cases, since a Noble of higher rank
than the accused must judge them. Inadvertent crimes
are handled with a warning or admonition; repeated
errors might also result in the Noble or Intendant being
dismissed from their present job or losing hope of
further promotion.
Nobles are believed, under the law, to be incapable
of incited crimes. Insane crimes reflect a breakdown
in a Noble’s personality (portrayed to Proles as the
result of overwork and demands of responsibility).
Minor violations may be let off with a warning and
usually a short or lengthy enforced vacation from work:
major crimes call for re-education. For the good of all,
a convicted Noble is usually transferred to another
location or world after re-education. Intendants are also
re-educated but usually revert to Proles and have mental
blocks placed in their minds to make them forget how to
use their psionic talents.

Re-education

The cure for any aberrant behaviour is re-education.
Psionics has made this extremely efficient and studies
confirmed which educational techniques worked and how
efficiently, allowing academics to plan lessons with and
create examinations that confirm success. Psychologists
and mental health professionals study the mind and
develop mood and behaviour-altering techniques with
levels of effectiveness unheard of elsewhere.
The result is excellent diagnosis and careful treatment
in re-education centres. While duration of treatment
will vary depending on the patient and complexity of
the issues, when treatment is completed the individual
re-joins society without stigma or blot. Re-education is
viewed by Zhodani like a period of recovery from illness.

Proles

It is important to remember that Proles are not citizens.
They are subject to the jurisdiction of the Consulate, as
manifested through the local government council in the
region they reside or, in the case of individuals working
directly for a consular agency (such as the military), that
organisation’s hierarchy.
Proles are not serfs owned by a Noble family but are
considered dependents of the Consulate as a whole. If a
Prole wishes to change job and move to another town or
planet, and can afford to pay for moving and transport,
they still require permission of the local council. In
practice, all this means is letting the council office know
they are moving and explaining why to an Intendant
bureaucrat. If they have a good reason to do so, such as
an opportunity for a new, better-paying job or a region
whose schools better suit the aptitudes of their children,
the request will be routinely approved. If the decision
seems frivolous, or not in the Prole’s own best interest,
the council may not grant it and the Thought Police will
inquire into their mental health – why are they unhappy
enough to want to change their job and move to a
different location?
This is an important fact to remember; all of a Prole’s
major decisions are subject to the scrutiny of the
Thought Police and upper classes (or superior officers,
if the Prole is in the military). If their actions seem ill
considered or unhealthy, the government may intervene
for the Prole’s own good.

Intendants and Nobles

Privacy of thought is highly respected by Intendants and
Nobles as their greatest freedom; Proles have no such
rights. Nobles have an almost complete right of privacy
and Intendants nearly as much; in either case, it can
only be breached if there is suspicion (in the case of an
Intendant) or clear proof (for a Noble) that the individual
is guilty of aberrant thought.
In other ways, Intendants have less freedom than Proles
do. Membership of this class carries a precondition
of service: Intendants are expected to be engaged in
socially acceptable work under the close supervision
of the Nobility. Soon after reaching adulthood an
Intendant will select a career path and generally remain
in that career until either retirement (with pension) or
successful promotion to the Nobility. Retired Intendants
have somewhat more freedom and usually end up
raising a family, taking up travel or becoming involved in
hobbies or personal business pursuits.

247

