Nobles are, to a large degree, as free as any Imperial
citizen. They have the right to vote or hold office and
are free to travel and do as they wish, provided they
obey Consular laws. Those who choose to enter military
service or join a government agency will, of course, be
expected to obey their superior officers.

ART

Artists have an important role in Zhodani society.
Zhodani fine arts are much the same as those in the
Imperium: painting, music, sculpture, theatre and literary
endeavours all thrive. The Zhodani have one significant
difference in the practice of their art, however.
An artist with telepathy soon learns what provokes a
response. For example, a Zhodani artist learns exactly
what mural to put in a dental waiting room to calm
nervous patients. They know what effects specific
colours have on viewers and can achieve exact (and
sometimes subliminal) results through their artwork.
Because of the conformist nature of Zhodani society,
most Zhodani art seems limited and unimaginative
by Imperial standards. Zhodani artists are not placed
under any legal restrictions or censorship, however. They
simply know what is acceptable to society as a whole
and remain within those limits voluntarily. Zhodani
artists do not feel compelled to stretch the limits of their
expression, as do many Imperial artists, and argue that
their creativity is not stunted by the restrictions they
work under.

DRESS

The most distinctive elements of Zhodani dress are the
turbans and cloaks worn by the Nobility, along with the
stylish beards male Nobles favour and the headbands
worn by Intendants. However, there is much more to
Zhodani dress than this.
In work roles, Zhodani wear practical clothing to fit their
station and responsibilities. At other times, Zhodani
prefer comfortable, loose clothing (often trousers
and tunics), generally made of lighter fabrics. During
appropriate holidays, Proles can wear quite outlandish
colours and clothes but the Nobility tend to be more
restrained. Noble fashion is intended to provoke a
response of respect and deference, and no Noble would
ever go out in public in anything less.

ROBOTICS

Almost every industrialised race uses robots in their
factories but the vast majority are nothing more than
reprogrammable machine tools that remain fixed in

248

place. Zhodani use industrial robots but also mobile
robots to a much greater degree than other major races
outside of the Hivers.
The fact that robots do not have minds that can be
communicated with through ordinary telepathy means
that Zhodani do not try to anthropomorphise robots
to the same degree as the Imperium. An Intendant or
Noble need only to try to touch a robot’s mind to know
it is not ‘alive’ or see inside the machine’s body with
ESP to reveal its workings. Nor, in closely monitored
Zhodani society, are the fears and prejudices other
races have about a ‘robot revolt’ or ‘android doubles’
likely to occur – at least, not without swift treatment by
the Thought Police.
Lacking biases that limit the use of mobile robots in
the Imperium, it is not surprising that Zhodani make a
greater use of them. However, the Zhodani preference
for psionics has slowed the development of advanced
Artificial Intelligence; instead, Zhodani robots are
designed to receive orders from both computer inputs
and psionically. As a result, they do require no great
intellect. The role of robots in Zhodani society is simple;
machines do repetitious or dangerous jobs, freeing
Zhodani for safer or more rewarding pursuits.

THE MILITARY

Although they do not consider themselves a warrior
people, the Zhodani do have a lengthy military tradition.
There are three major services: the Navy, Army and
Consular Guard.
In the Zhodani military, Intendants and Nobles cannot
hold enlisted rank. The lowest rank held by either is
that of commissioned specialist, roughly equivalent
to the lowest officer grades in the Imperial military.
Commissioned specialists are officers by virtue of their
psionic training, however, and although they hold officerequivalent rank, they are not in the chain of command
and do not give orders (an equivalent in the Imperial
military is that of doctor, who holds a commission
and officer-equivalent rank but is not in the chain of
command). In addition, some positions require both a
specific psionic talent and command responsibilities,
such as the commander of a commando groupment.
Technicians, drivers, gunners, non-commissioned officers
(NCOs) and so on are Proles. The Zhodani have also long
used mobile robots as part of their armed forces.

