NAVAL

ORGANISATION

The Consulate Navy carries out two principle duties:
exploration and maintenance of the status quo.
Exploration is driven by several long-range missions in the
direction of the galactic core and the Navy also engages
in scientific research and short-range survey operations
closer to home, coordinating private and corporate
research operations to cover gaps in its activities.
To maintain the status quo, the Consulate has
developed a defensive perspective that accepts the
need for pre-emptive strikes to shape the thinking of
neighbouring states or remove a prospective threat.
The Consular Navy is tasked with obtaining space
superiority during war, besieging enemy worlds and
protecting interstellar trade routes within the Zhodani
Consulate. It is mainly equipped at TL12–14 but a
small number of TL15 ships have been produced
since the Fourth Frontier War. The Consular Navy is
organised into eight provincial fleets, one per province,
and in peacetime is nominally managed by provincial
councils. Zhodani squadrons tend to follow a similar
organisation to that of the Imperium, with frontier
systems defended by squadrons of battleships and
cruisers and battle rider squadrons held back in reserve
fleets within the Consulate.

The biggest difference between the Consular and
Imperial Navy is that a good percentage of the former’s
ships are occupied with exploration duties, which in the
Imperium would be the province of the Scout Service.
Some Zhodani ships are dedicated exploration vessels
packed with scientific instruments, while others serve as
escorts or embark on armed reconnaissance missions.
Many are tasked with supporting the core expeditions
but exploration also continues in other directions, albeit
at a much slower pace.
This ‘warrior-explorer ethic’ has a strong effect on
Zhodani naval culture. Many Zhodani officers possess
advanced degrees in sophontology or other scientific
fields, as well as engineering and naval tactics, and
senior officers will have spent a term or so serving on an
exploration mission; as such, they are expected to be
diplomats as well as soldiers.

ARMY AND GUARD

ORGANISATION

The Zhodani Army comprises the planetary-armed
fighting forces of individual worlds and subsectors within
the Consulate, dealing with planetary surface actions,
battles and campaigns. Where necessary, they may serve
as ship’s troops aboard naval vessels. The army, like the
navy, has its own command structure, which parallels
governmental council structure. Consular Guard units,
however, are under direct authority of the Qlomdlabr, the
supreme council of the Consulate.

249

