Leader-of-five Zhof Ievrepl is a native of Sriezdazh,
a high-population, mid-tech world in the Ziafrplians
sector. Like many members of the Prole class he aspired
to a career of honourable service to the Consulate and
joined the Zhodani Consulate Combined Interstellar
Forces. The selection process indicated that physically
he had an aptitude for low-gravity operations whilst
mentally he was inclined towards steadiness and
tenacity. These were ideal characteristics for a marine,
so after basic training Zhof reported aboard Mobile
Training Facility Enjosiebr.
By the time Enjosiebr arrived at Cronor in the Spinward
Marches, Zhof was a qualified Consular Marine. Unlike
most members of his contingent, he did not transfer
to a navy ship or base but was instead selected for the
honour of remaining aboard as part of the Advanced
Training Cadre during the next voyage of Enjosiebr. At
the end of this voyage, Zhof joined the troops-aboard
contingent of the heavy cruiser Setlflal with the rank of
Follower and, as expected, quickly advanced to lead his
squad when his Leader-of-five was promoted.
Zhof is qualified in all aspects of troops-aboard
operations, including low-gravity combat, explosives
and breaching equipment. His personal specialism
is close combat and he holds the position of Third
Instructor of Hand Weapons to his shipboard
contingent. Whilst this is not a particularly noteworthy
position it is a portent of things to come and Zhof
hopes one day to become an instructor to the family of
a noble, perhaps by way of serving as a member of the
Close Guard surrounding a senior officer. The ship’s
Mentor-of-Aspirations team has noted this ambition
and pronounced it both worthy and attainable.

PRIMARY WEAPON

The primary weapon of most Consular Marines is the
Personal Energy Weapon Riebchi, generally referred to
as the ‘Consular carbine’ by non-Zhodani observers. A
standard direct-feed laser device, the Riebchi varies
mainly in its inclusion of a rechargeable battery pack
under the collimator tube. This permits 6–7 shots from
the weapon if its backpack power supply is disconnected.
The battery pack can be disconnected and used as an
emergency power source for a damaged combat armour
suit’s life support or other light equipment.

250

SECONDARY

WEAPON

Zhof Ievrepl is equipped for close combat with a
Standardised Medium Blade Weapon Vranz, typically
known as the ‘Vranz pattern boarding sword’ outside the
Consulate. The Vranz is a straight-bladed cut-and-thrust
weapon which, despite its appearance, is primarily
used for thrusting actions, which give a better chance
of penetrating armour. As an instructor for this weapon,
Zhof has the honour of wearing a stylised image of it
among his insignia.

COMBAT ARMOUR

Zhof wears standard Consulate-issue non-powerassisted combat armour. Lighter than its Imperial
equivalent, Zhodani armour uses articulated plates
over a resilient flexible base with multiple-redundant
life support and wound-management systems. The suit
provides slightly better protection against radiation and
electromagnetic threats than Imperial armour, and is
designed to permit maximum agility at the expense of
some physical protection.

HELMET

Zhof’s helmet uses the standard Consulate ‘big eyes’
design – as many Imperials call it – which incorporates
multispectral emitters/sensors and user displays in the
lower part of the ‘eyes’. Although the design of the eyes is
considered by some to create weak points in the helmet
front, the difference from a single faceplate design is
so small as to be negligible. The helmet also contains
communications receptors and an independently powered
communications unit. This gives a downed trooper a last
chance to call for help even after suit failure, or pass
along information, enemy coordinates, or a final inspiring
message to his comrades.

OPERATIONS PACK

Consulate combat armour can be used without a
backpack, using a small distributed power storage
array, but normally one of several operations packs
are carried. In addition to power for the suit and
any weapons carried, a standard operations pack
contains tools, a breaching charge, a thrust pistol
for open-space operations and additional equipment
as assigned. This usually includes one or more hand
grenades, an electronic intrusion kit and similar
mission-specific items.

