The Draft
The Psionic Games

Any Intendant may apply once during their lifetime
to compete in the Thequzdievl, the Psionic
Games, by making a PSI check. If successful,
the Intendant devotes that term of service to
competition in the Psionic Games instead of a
career. The term still counts as a term in the
Traveller’s current career, except no survival or
advancement checks are made, nor are skills
gained from career skill tables.
Preliminary Competitions: For each psionic talent
the Traveller is skilled in, make an Average (8+)
check. Record the number of successes and
failures.
Final Competition: Roll PSI 12+ to win the final
competition, with DM+1 for each successful
preliminary competition and DM-1 for each failed
preliminary competition.
Awards: After the final competition, the Traveller
receives PSI +1 if more preliminary competitions
were successful than failed. A winner of the final
competition receives PSI +2 and becomes a Noble,
raising SOC to 11.

CAREERS

Zhodani careers, in general, are used in the same way as
described in the Traveller Core Rulebook. However, there
are exceptions, which are noted here.
While Zhodani share most careers with other human
cultures, there are some differences. The Agent career
has no corporate specialty, as corporations within the
Consulate do not conduct trade wars or espionage
against each other. There is no specific career for
Nobles, although the Government career shares some
similarities. There is no Scout career, as that is specific
to the Imperium. There is no Rogue career, as that
represents behaviour considered unhealthy by Zhodani
society. Finally, the pervasiveness of a psionic society
requires changes across all careers.
Zhodani Travellers have no penalty for changing career,
as Zhodani society recognises that a new perspective on
life is mentally healthy and often desirable.

254

Zhodani use the following Draft table if they fail to
qualify for a career.

Draft
1D
–3
4–5
6

Career (speciality)
Army (any)
Merchant (corporate)
Navy (any)

Skills

Skills are determined as normal but there is an
additional skill table for all careers except Prole.
Travellers may only roll on the Psionic Skills table if they
have Soc 10+.
Psionic Skills: Intendants and Nobles may develop
talents over time as if they were normal skills. If they
receive a talent they were not trained in or failed to gain
during their initial psionic training, they may attempt
again to gain that talent (all previous DMs apply,
including the cumulative DM-1 per previous check). If a
Traveller rolls the Talent skill choice, they may increase
any psionic talent already possessed.
Rare Skills: The Deception, Gambling and Streetwise
skills are generally not permitted to Zhodani Travellers.
Deception and Streetwise can be gained by those in the
Agent (tozjabr) career, as they deal with non-Zhodani
who engage in unhealthy activities. However, Gambling
is unknown in Zhodani society.

Commission and Advancement

Zhodani society favours the careers of Intendants and,
especially, Nobles. The following rules apply to all
Zhodani Travellers.
•
•
•
•

Nobles and Intendants automatically succeed with
Advancement (Commission if appropriate) in their
first term of service, unless they are draftees.
Drafted Nobles and Intendants receive automatic
Advancement (Commission if appropriate) in their
second term of service.
Nobles gain DM+1 to all Advancement rolls.
Proles and Intendants in the Government career may
not advance higher than Rank 3 (Executive).

