RANKS AND BONUSES CONT...
RANK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6

THOUGHT POLICE
Observer
Guardian of 20
Guardian of 50
Guardian of 100
Guardian of 500
Guardian of 1,000
Guardian of 5,000

SKILL OR BENEFIT
—
Persuade 1
—
—
Investigate 1
Admin 1
SOC +1

MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

An investigation goes critically wrong or leads to the top, ruining your career. Roll Advocate 8+. If successful,
you may keep the Benefit roll from this term. If failed, roll on the Re-education Events table (page 274).

3

A mission goes wrong and you are held responsible for it. You may accept your fate and leave this career with an
extra Benefit roll as compensation or may contest the accusation. If contested, roll Advocate 8+. If successful,
you may stay in this career. If failed, roll on the Re-education Events table (page 274).

4

You suffer psychological stress and must leave this career. Roll on the Re-education Events table (page 274).

5

You are injured in an act of sabotage. Roll on the Injury table but gain a Contact in the medical field.

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career, even from a Re-education Event.

3

You are given specialist training in vehicles. Gain one level of Drive, Flyer, Pilot or Seafarer.

4

A natural disaster strikes. Roll 1D; on a 1, roll on the Injury table. Otherwise, gain one level of Survival or Medic.

5

You complete a mission for your superiors and are suitably rewarded. Gain DM+1 to one Benefit roll.

6

You establish a network of contacts. Gain D3 Contacts.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Zhodani Life Events table (page 274).

8

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill already possessed.

9

You go undercover to investigate an enemy. Roll Investigate 8+. If successful, roll immediately on the Prole
Events table (page 270) and make one roll on any Proles Specialist skills table. If failed, roll immediately on
the Proles Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

10

You are re-assigned to a desk job. Gain one level of Admin, Electronics (computers) or Electronics (comms).

11

Your superiors take an interest in your career. Gain an Ally and take DM+2 to your next Advancement roll.

12

Your efforts uncover a major conspiracy. Your next Advancement roll is automatically successful.

