RANKS AND BONUSES CONT...
RANK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6

OFFICER
Waiting Officer
Officer of 20
Officer of 50
Officer of 100
Officer of 500
Officer of 1,000
Officer of 5,000

SKILL OR BENEFIT
Gun Combat 1
Leadership 1
—
Tactics (military) 1
—
—
SOC +1

MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

You are involved in a disastrous campaign and barely escape off planet in a frantic and badly organised
evacuation. This leaves you a long way from friendly lines and you makes D3 Contacts as you return home. Roll
on the Re-education Event table (page 274).

3

You are sent to battle against insurgents and discharged because of stress or injury. Gain one level of Recon or
Survival. If SOC 10+, gain an Enemy as the government buries the whole incident. If Soc 9-, roll on the Reeducation Events table (page 274).

4

You discover that your commanding officer is engaged in some form of illegal activity. You can join him and gain
Ally before the inevitable investigation results in discharge; roll on the Re-education Event table (page 271).
Alternatively, you can cooperate with the Thought Police – you must leave the career but keep your Benefit roll
from this term of service.

5

You have problems working with an officer or fellow soldier. If SOC 10+, gain that officer as a Rival as he drives
you out of the Army. If SOC 9-, roll on the Re-education Event table (page 274).

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career, even from a Re-education Event.

3

You are assigned to an urbanised world torn by war. Gain one level of Stealth, Persuade or Recon.

4

You are assigned to a world with a hostile or wild environment. Gain one level of Vacc Suit, Engineer, Animals
(riding or training) or Recon.

5

You are sent to Commando training. Gain one level of Vacc Suit, Heavy Weapons or Athletics (dexterity). If
you have Soc 10+, you may leave this career (mustering out as normal) and then automatically qualify for the
Guard career (with the same rank) next term.

6

You are thrown into a brutal ground war. Roll Gun Combat or Stealth 8+ to avoid injury; if successful, gain one
level of Gun Combat, Leadership, or Tactics (military).

7

Life Event. Roll on the Zhodani Life Events table (page 274).

8

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill already possessed.

9

Surrounded and outnumbered by the enemy, you hold out until relief arrives. Gain DM+2 to the next
Advancement roll.

10

You are assigned to a peacekeeping role. Gain one level of Admin, Investigate or Recon.

11

Your commanding officer takes an interest in your career. Gain him as an Ally and gain DM+2 to your next
Advancement roll thanks to his aid.

12

You display heroism in battle. Your next Advancement roll is automatically successful.

