RANKS AND BONUSES CONT...
RANK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6

DIPLOMAT
Assistant
Second Secretary
First Secretary
Counsellor
Consul
Ambassador
High Consul

SKILL OR BENEFIT
—
Admin 1
—
Advocate 1
—
Diplomat 1
SOC +1

Proles and Intendants may not be promoted above Rank 3.

MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

An error of judgement leads to a severe diplomatic incident. You are discharged from this career in disgrace.
Forfeit all but one Benefit roll.

2

Diplomatic efforts to secure a peace settlement or trade deal backfire. Forego all Advancement this term but
remain in the career.

3

Your posting loses its diplomatic status following the deterioration of relations between governments. Gain a
Rival and leave this career.

4

Someone attempts to murder you. Roll one of PSI 8+, Melee 8+ or Recon 8+ to avoid the attempt. If failed, roll
on the Injury table. If successful, you may continue in this career.

5

A foreign ambassador insults you. Roll Diplomat 8+ to avoid a diplomatic incident. If failed, roll on the Reeducation Events table (page 274) and leave this career. If successful, gain an extra Benefit roll.

6

Terrorists attack your embassy. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

Your time in government service gives you a wide range of experiences. Gain one level in Animals (riding), Art
or Carouse.

4

You are seconded to act as a special advisor to another career for the remainder of the term. Roll on any other
Zhodani career Service Skills table for one skill and gain one cash Benefit roll from that career.

5

You inherit a gift from a grateful patron. Gain DM+1 to any one Benefit roll.

6

You become deeply involved in politics on your world of residence, becoming a player in the political intrigues
of government. Gain one level in Admin, Advocate, Diplomacy or Persuade but also gain a Rival.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Zhodani Life Events table (page 274).

8

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill already possessed.

9

A group of conspiring Nobles attempts to recruit you. If refused, gain the conspiracy as an Enemy. If accepted,
roll Diplomat or Persuade 8+. If failed, roll on the Mishaps table as the conspiracy collapses. If successful,
gain one level of Carouse, Persuade or Tactics.

10

You are recognised as building bridges between councils and other groups in Zhodani society. Gain one level of
Advocate, Diplomat or Leadership.

11

You make an alliance with a powerful and charismatic Noble, who becomes an Ally. Either gain one level of
Leadership or take DM+2 to your next Advancement roll thanks to his aid.

12

You excel in your role. Your next Advancement roll is automatically successful.

