MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

The ship that you boarded is set to self-destruct; in the scramble to get out, soldiers are unnecessarily injured.
Irrespective of the reasons or outcome, you take some of the blame. Suffer DM-2 on the next Advancement roll
and gain an Enemy.

3

Your unit is dropped into an unpleasant and potentially hostile environment to battle local insurgents. Gain one
level of Recon, Survival or Vacc Suit but also gain an Enemy.

4

You are ordered to take part in a mission that goes against your conscience. If accepted, you stay with the
Guards but gain the lone survivor as an Enemy. If refused, roll on the Re-education Events table (page 274).

5

A mission goes wrong; you and several others are captured and mistreated by the enemy. Gain an Enemy,
reduce STR and DEX by –1 each because of injuries. While discharged from the service, keep all Benefit rolls
from the term.

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps Table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

You are assigned to the security staff of a space station. Increase Vacc Suit or Athletics (dexterity) by one level.

4

You are on the front lines of a planetary assault and occupation. Gain one level in Recon, Gun Combat,
Leadership or Electronics (comms).

5

You are sent to Thought Police training. Gain one level of Advocate, Investigate or Persuade. If you have
SOC 10+, you may leave this career (mustering out as normal) and then automatically qualifies for the Agent
(thought police) career (with the same rank) in the next term.

6

You are assigned to an assault on an enemy fortress. Roll Melee or Gun Combat 8+. If successful, gain Tactics
(military) or Leadership. If failed, you are injured; roll on the Injury table.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Zhodani Life Events table (page 274).

8

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill already possessed.

9

You have the opportunity to volunteer for a deadly rescue mission. If refused, nothing happens. If accepted,
roll Survival or END 8+. If successful, you are granted DM+2 to your next Advancement roll and gain an extra
Benefit roll. If failed, roll on the Injury table.

10

A mission goes disastrously wrong due to your commander’s error or incompetence but you survive. If you report
your commanding officer for the failure, gain DM+2 to your next Advancement roll. If you report nothing and
protect your commander, gain the commander as an Ally.

11

Your commanding officer takes an interest in your career. Either gain one level of Leadership or Tactics
(military), or gain DM+2 to your next Advancement roll thanks to his aid.

12

You display heroism in battle. Your next Advancement roll is automatically successful.

