RANKS AND BONUSES CONT...
RANK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6

OFFICER
Waiting Officer
Watch Officer
Deck Officer
Destroyer Officer
Cruiser Officer
Battleship Officer
Fleet Officer

SKILL OR SKILL OR BENEFIT
—
Melee (blade) 1
Leadership 1
—
Tactics (naval) 1
SOC +1
SOC +1

MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured in action. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

You are placed in the frozen watch (cryogenically stored on board ship) and revived improperly. Roll on the
Injury table. Roll SOC 8+ to remain in this career.

3

You have problems working with an officer or fellow crewman. If SOC 10+, gain that officer as a Rival as he
drives you out of the Navy. Otherwise, roll on the Re-education Event table (page 274).

4

Your ship suffers heavy damage in battle and you are injured. Roll twice on the Injury table, taking the lower
result. However your actions help save the lives of several colleagues, gaining you an additional Benefit roll.

5

A serious accident occurs on your watch and you are blamed for it, despite it being the result of another crew
member’s negligence. If SOC 10+, suffer DM-2 to your next Advancement Roll and gain an Enemy. Otherwise,
roll on the Re-education Events table (page 274).

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishaps table but you are not ejected from this career, even from a Re-education Event.

3

Your vessel participates in a diplomatic mission. Gain one level in Diplomat, Recon or Steward, or gain a Contact.

4

Your vessel participates in a notable military engagement. Gain one level in Engineer, Gunner, Pilot or
Electronics (sensors).

5

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to gain one level in any skill you
already possessed.

6

You work helping with a refit of your ship. Gain one level in Engineer, Mechanic or Science.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Zhodani Life Events table (page 274).

8

You perform a tour of border worlds. Roll SOC 8+ to gain one level in Animals, Recon or Survival, or a Contact.

9

You spend this term in the asteroid belts of a system, showing the navy’s presence and deterring pirates and
claim jumpers. Gain one level in Athletics (dexterity), Electronics (sensors) or Vacc Suit.

10

An explosion occurs in your section. Roll Mechanic or Engineer 8+ to help the damage control party to
bring the situation under control. If failed, roll on the Injury table. If successful, gain DM+2 to your next
Advancement roll.

11

Your commanding officer takes an interest in your career. Gain him as an Ally and take DM+2 to your next
Advancement roll thanks to his aid.

12

You display heroism in battle, saving the whole ship. Your next Advancement roll is automatically successful.

