MISHAPS TABLE
1D

MISHAP

1

Severely injured. Roll twice on the Injury table and take the lower result.

2

One of your co-workers develops hatred towards you, sabotaging your life. Gain an Enemy and roll on the Reeducation Event table (page 274).

3

A lack of interstellar trade causes economic hardship. Lose all Benefit rolls for this term.

4

An attack or other unusual event throws your life into chaos. Roll on the Re-education Event table (page 274).

5

A family member or lover is killed in a freak accident. Lose one Ally or Contact and roll on the Re-education
Event table (page 274).

6

Injured. Roll on the Injury table.

EVENTS TABLE
2D

EVENT

2

Disaster! Roll on the Mishap Table but you are not ejected from this career.

3

An investigation takes on a dangerous turn. Roll Investigate 8+ or Streetwise 8+. If you fail, roll on the Mishap
Table. If you succeed, increase one of these skills by one level: Deception, Jack-of-all-Trades, Persuade or
Tactics.

4

You complete a mission for your superiors and are suitably rewarded. Gain DM+1 to any one Benefit roll from
this career.

5

You establish a network of contacts. Gain D3 Contacts.

6

You are given advanced training in a specialist field. Roll EDU 8+ to increase any one skill you already have by
one level.

7

Life Event. Roll on the Life Events Table.

8

You go undercover to investigate an enemy. Roll Deception 8+. If you succeed, roll immediately on the
Rogue or Citizen Events Table and make one roll on any Specialist skill table for that career. If you fail, roll
immediately on the Rogue or Citizen Mishap Table of the Core Rulebook (page 24).

9

You go above and beyond the call of duty. Gain DM+2 to your next Advancement check.

10

You are given specialist training in vehicles. Gain one of Drive 1, Flyer 1, Pilot 1 or Gunner 1.

11

You are befriended by a senior agent. Either increase Investigate by one level or DM+4 to an Advancement roll
thanks to their aid.

12

Your efforts uncover a major conspiracy against your employers. You are automatically promoted.

