Zhodani Life Events
1D
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

11
12

Event
Sickness or Injury: You are injured or contract a serious illness. Roll on the Injury table.
Birth or Death: Someone close to you dies, such as a friend or family member. Alternatively, someone close
to you gives birth (or is born!). You are involved in some fashion (father or mother, relative, godparent, etc).
End of Relationship: A romantic relationship involving you ends. Roll 1D: On a 1–2 your partner is killed. On
a 3-4 your partner leaves. On a 5–6 you leaves your partner.
Improved Relationship: A romantic relationship involving you deepens, possibly leading to marriage or some
other emotional commitment.
New Relationship: You become romantically involved with an existing Ally or Contact. If you have no Contacts
or Allies, gain an Ally.
New Contact: You gain a new Contact.
Betrayal: You are betrayed in some fashion by a friend or colleague. If you have any Contacts or Allies,
convert one into a Rival or Enemy. Otherwise, gain a Rival or an Enemy.
Travel: You move to another world and gains DM+2 to your next Qualification roll.
Good Fortune: Something good happens to you; you come into money unexpectedly, have a lifelong dream
come true, get a book published or have some other stroke of good fortune. Gain a Benefit roll in your
current career.
Crime: You commit or is accused of a crime; roll SOC 8+. If failed, lose one Benefit roll and roll on the Reeducation Events table below.
Unusual Event: Something unusual occurs. Roll 1D:
1
Psionics: An event affects you, granting PSI +2. If you are a Prole and this increases PSI
above 8, you are elevated to the Intendant class (raising your SOC to 10) and sent to psionic
training.
2
Aliens: You spend time among an alien race. Gain Language and a Contact with a member of
that alien race.
3
Alien artefact: You come into possession of a curious piece of alien technology or an
archaeological relic.
4
Amnesia: Something happened to you but you do not know what it was. Regardless of SOC,
roll on the Re-education Events table (see table below).
5
Contact with Government: You have brief contact with the highest echelons of Consulate
government. Gain one Benefit roll in your current career.
6
Ancient Technology: You have an item believed to be left behind by the Ancients. Because it
interacts with you in a unique fashion, you have been allowed to keep it but both the item
and you remain objects of occasional study by Consulate scientists and researchers.

RE-EDUCATION

EVENTS

For Proles, re-education is an important part of proper
mental health. Intendants and Nobles are only sent to
re-education in more serious circumstances. There is no
social stigma for re-education; it is viewed as being as
necessary as surgery is for physical health. Time spent
in re-education does not count as time in a career for
Benefit rolls, Advancement or gaining skills; it does
count for aging.

Re-education Events
1D
1

2

3
4
5
6

274

Event
Re-education requires two terms. You must enter
a new career and reduce END by –1. If SOC
11+, reduce SOC by –1, to a minimum of 11.
Re-education requires one term. You must enter
a new career and reduce END by –1. If SOC
11+, reduce SOC by –1, to a minimum of 11.
Re-education requires one term but you can
continue this career.
Re-education requires less than a year and your
career is not affected.
Fine of Cr1000 x 1D; you do not require reeducation.
Exonerated! Receive an additional Benefit roll in
your current career.

