Anagathics: Use the number of terms since you started
taking anagathics as a negative DM to rolls on the Reeducation Events table.

MUSTERING OUT

Benefits are granted at the end of career service, as
detailed on page 45 of the Traveller Core Rulebook.
Zhodani have access to new mustering out benefits.
Courier: You receive a Yetsasl courier with 25% of the
mortgage paid off on it. This courier is identical to the
one on page 296 but you must roll 1D times on the
Outdated Ships Table on page 164 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook. If you roll this benefit again, an additional
25% of the mortgage has been paid off – if you roll this
benefit four times, the courier will have no mortgage and
it will be all yours!
Nenj: The Nenjchinzhe’driante (the Consular Legion of
Merit) is a post-career recognition of valuable service
to all Zhodani. Membership in the Consular Legion of

Merit is egalitarian – Nobles, Intendants and Proles are
all eligible for the award. Those who have won enrolment
are entitled to wear the distinctive gold sash of honour
that marks them as recognised elite of the Consulate.
Although it is largely honorary, members do receive
concrete benefits. Zhodani citizens almost invariably
grant members a 10% discount on just about
everything, from meals to equipment purchases to
starship passages. Sums of more than MCr1 are rarely
so discounted but bank loans in these amounts are
made without interest. Membership is for life and is not
transferable but companions of a member may share in
the benefits when they do the buying.
Scout: You receive a Ninz scout with 25% of the mortgage
paid off on it. This scout is identical to the one on page
294 but you must roll 1D times on the Outdated Ships
Table on page 165 of the Traveller Core Rulebook. If you
roll this benefit again, an additional 25% of the mortgage
has been paid off – if you roll this benefit four times, the
scout will have no mortgage and it will be all yours!
SOC: SOC may never be increased if it would raise
a Prole character’s SOC above 9. An unusable SOC
increase is taken as a bonus Ship Share.
Trader: You receive a Zdebr trader with 25% of the
mortgage paid off on it. This trader is identical to the
one on page 298 but you must roll 1D times on the
Outdated Ships Table on page 164 of the Traveller Core
Rulebook. If you roll this benefit again, an additional
25% of the mortgage has been paid off – if you roll this
benefit four times, the trader will have no mortgage
and it will be all yours!

Pensions

Zhodani Travellers can only receive pension payments
within the Consulate. Nobles receive double the
amount received.

Aging Crisis

If PSI is reduced to 0 through aging, it does not
constitute an aging crisis but the Traveller loses all
psionic abilities and can never regain them. Reduction
of PSI through aging does not affect SOC.
Anagathics: Within the Zhodani Consulate, use of
anagathics is viewed as a symptom of mental illness.
Use the number of terms since the Traveller started
taking anagathics as a negative DM to rolls on the
Re-education Events table. Additionally, the cost of
anagathics in the Consulate is considerably higher than
in Imperial space. They will cost Cr200000 x 2D for
each term the Traveller uses the drugs.

275

