C E N T R A L

X

S U P P L Y

ZHODANI

Zhodani equipment across Tech Levels is functionally
equivalent to that available in the Imperium. Most
equipment is designed at up to TL14 (with an average
of TL13); some TL15 items are manufactured on
Zhdant and other advanced worlds but these are
generally restricted to a few elite government agencies
or military units.
Zhodani can use equipment and facilities designed for
other human races with little difficulty. One exception
comes from Zhodani height; as they average two
metres tall, low doors and ceilings can occasionally
be awkward, and clothes or armour designed for other
humans may require re-tailoring (add +5% to cost) in
order to fit properly. Aside from trousers possibly too
long in the leg, other races using Zhodani equipment
may have a different; equipment intended strictly for
use by Nobles or Intendants (such as Guard combat
armour or a personal vehicle) may only have psisensitive switches, safeties or triggers.
Firearms, other than semi-automatic slug weapons and
shotguns, are generally unavailable for sale on Zhodani
worlds, regardless of local Law Level, as no local
market exists.

PSIONICS AND

TECHNOLOGY

278

C A T A L O G U E

‘flicking’; telekinetic psions can double this distance.
These switches are elementary on-off devices used to
respond to a command by shifting from one state to the
other and can be tripped by anyone psionically trained
who has learned the technique. Most Zhodani starships
are equipped with such switches, allowing Nobles
and Intendants to operate equipment without being in
physical contact with it. The cost of such a switch built
into a device is negligible.
Modification
Psi-sensitive Switch

TL
7

Kg
—

Cost
—

Psionic Interface: Any weapon or technological device can
be outfitted with a psionic interface. This allows a Traveller
using the device or weapon to use their PSI modifier
instead of their DEX modifier; this requires physical
contact. A Traveller without psionic ability gains no benefit
from the interface. Adding a psionic interface increases
the cost of the device by 20%.
Modification
Psionic Interface

TL
14

Kg
—

Cost
+20%

Symbiosis Shielding: Devices can be shielded from the
psionic control many Zhodani are capable of. Each level
of shielding applies DM-1 to any Zhodani check made
to assert control over the device and increases its cost
by +10%.

As a psionic culture, the Zhodani look to technology to
enhance or improve their talents and abilities. While
not all research has been successful, there have been
two noteworthy developments. The psi-sensitive switch
has been available in Zhodani space for millennia and
such switches are built into all technological devices
within the Consulate. The psionic interface, on the
other hand, is a very recent development and remains
uncommon. Because of their nature, Imperial law
makes items with either modification illegal to produce
or import into the Imperium.

ARMOUR

Psi-sensitive Switch: Technological devices produced in
Zhodani territory contain integral psi-sensitive controls
(in addition to regular controls), which allow operation
from a distance of up to 50 metres by mentally

Trooper model combat armour is identical in function
to the TL12 combat armour found on page 98 of the
Traveller Core Rulebook.

Modification
Symbiosis Shielding

TL
13

Kg
—

Cost
+10% per DM-1

Most armour is restricted to military units, or used by
Thought Police personnel, and is unavailable for sale on
Zhodani worlds. Protective gear for hostile environments
is widely available, although most likely owned by
corporations, Intendants or Nobles, rather than Proles.

