FOREWORD
This is a book about starship operations.
Starships are part of the central focus of
Traveller, which is about working together to
solve problems and have adventures. The
primary intent of this book is to provide context
and detail for life aboard a starship, whether to
inspire entire campaign plots or simply add detail
to slice-of-life scenes. However, there is more to
this book than just that.
From its first release in 1977 to the publication
of this book, there have been several editions
of Traveller. Each gives a different spin on how
to play games by telling tales of Travellers in
space. Doubtless there will be more editions
after these words have been committed to ink.
While the basics remain the same, such as the
use of jump drive to travel faster than light, each
edition emphasised different details, leading
to confusion, and conflicts when players have
attempted to take material from different editions
to weave the tale they wish to tell.
This book is meant, in part, to smooth
over such conflicts. It takes material from
Mongoose’s works, my own Traveller5, and
more, weaving them together into a coherent
story extending where possible from real
world science, including developments since
1977. For example, while we do not have
artificial gravity yet it seems likely,

2

assuming it is possible, that it may extend from
quantum gravity manipulation, which implies
certain details of how it would work in practice.
We know that gravity propagates by waves
and that signals propagated by waves can be
shaped by beamforming techniques. It is likely
these same techniques would be applied to
manufactured gravity.
Since the focus of this book is on the narrative
and the content is intended to be useful across
editions, a minimum of game mechanics are
present. Sharp-eyed readers will find a few
exceptions but these have been phrased to be
adaptable to your edition of choice.
Keep in mind that this is only a story. The
Official Traveller Universe is but one story that
can be told with the Traveller rulesets and even
then, the contents of this book are presented
from the perspective of certain individuals in
the Third Imperium in 1105. If you wish to run
a campaign in a different setting, whether a
different time or place in the OTU or in some
other universe entirely, use as much or as little
of this as you want.
Keep travelling,

