INTRODUCTION
Congratulations on the acquisition of your ship! This
overview introduces you to the common objects and
systems found on most starships. While this book
cannot cover the specifics of every modification,
variation and implementation, it tries to cover items of
use to you as you operate your new or used ship.
For technical specifications of your ship, please refer to
your maintenance manual. This book focuses on 100to-200 ton commercial ships. If you need emergency
assistance or wish to know about a specific topic, refer
to the Table of Contents.
This book has two main sections. First is a description
of the major components of starships, system-bysystem, starting with the most vital, then notes on
less common crew roles and typical concerns when
maintaining and building ships. A comparison of three
common ships follows – the Animal-class safari ship,
the Suleiman-class scout/courier and the Empress
Marava-class far trader – as examples of similarities
and differences among smaller starships.
This manual covers the operation of starships, extending
beyond the core systems of piloting and engineering.
Many who serve aboard ships have other no less

essential functions, such as brokers to optimise the
value of cargo a trading ship delivers, survey specialists
to test an unmapped world for colonisation or stewards
to attend to the needs of passengers. They should
be considered crew just the same as the pilot or
engineers. This manual is intended for their perusal as
well, to improve understanding of and interactions with
crew considered more immediately vital to the ship’s
operations. Knowing the main systems of a starship can
save your life and the lives of your fellow crewmates.
This book covers insight from crews that have served
aboard a wide variety of spacecraft. Many of the skills
learned from one spacecraft mission apply to others
readily enough but some may be more specific; the
crew of a passenger liner may know as much about
sensor operation as a survey ship’s crew knows about
entertainment but both are valuable in their own right.
This does not extend into the quirks of every individual
class, as the number of spacecraft classes – let alone
variations – in Charted Space is beyond counting.
Compiling a single definitive database of every
spacecraft class in operation in the Third Imperium,
let alone every class that has ever existed in Charted
Space, may be impossible.

3

