T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

LIVING WITH HIGHER TECHNOLOGY
A special note for readers from worlds of TL8
and below, for whom gravitics and fusion
power are not staples of daily life: if you have
secured a spot on a starship crew, you are
going to have to adjust to life on a starship,
fast. This book can help you do that.

Introduction

First off, do not worry about getting
accustomed to gravitics, despite how vital
a role it will play in your life aboard ship.
Artificial gravity is mostly about keeping things
the same as you are used to. Making cargo
and people float around is easy but not useful
for most things you will do. Manoeuvre drives
and other external systems are things the
ship does, not things you directly experience
unless they go very wrong.

4

The biggest practical change you will meet
is that mass is sharply limited but energy is
in abundance, relative to what you are used
to. This changes the preferred approach
to many situations. There will be a higher
degree of robotic assistance, among other
tools you may not recognise. For example,
you might be used to flushing chemical drain
cleaner down a clogged pipe. On your world
there may be a factory making this chemical
but on a ship it would be a non-renewable
mass, with no guaranteed way to replace
it until the next time the ship restocks at a
major port, as minor ports might not carry this
resource. Instead, a robot can crawl outside
the pipe, image inside it without breaking the
pipe, then employ ultrasonics or gravitic tools
at the sticking point to peel off the clog.
Avoid committing pranks that will consume
mass, either directly or to clean up. Ruining
the food supply, especially while not at
port, is a classic way to earn the ire of your
crewmates. Faking emergency calls or

simply annoying well-armed starports or
military vessels is a bad idea. Even if your
crew strikes you as particularly informal, as
is the case for many crews that have room
for a low-TL member, it never hurts to act
professionally while on the job. This will
make your life easier, more comfortable and
may save your life from some of the many
dangers of space.
Humaniti has travelled the stars for thousands
of years and most of it is well-documented.
Learn from that and compare new ideas
you come up with to what others created
before. New circumstances, particularly new
technology or discoveries, can invalidate
this prior wisdom but rarely entirely. Your
world or family might possess some unique
insights but, while planning, check guides like
this to see if your idea has been attempted
previously. If one of your crew members has
awed you with impossibly profound wisdom,
there is a good chance this is how they
learned it. You may as well copy that trick.
A version of this warning applies to those
who come from high technology, high
population worlds, where supplies of a wide
range of goods are available in abundance
and on demand. Once a ship leaves port,
supplies are limited to what it carries and
what it can manufacture until it reaches
the next major port: a Class D or E starport
might not have food for sale, let alone spare
parts. The general advice to carry supplies
for four weeks, even if the plan is to head
straight from one major port to another,
applies to food and personal consumables as
well as fuel. Meal planning and other home
economics skills can help avoid running out
of food mid-jump but there is a limit to how
far supplies can be stretched.

R

