Every spacecraft is made to perform a certain range
of functions. While some fulfil their intended role better
than others, few are complete failures. Practically
without exception, additional uses have been found for
any class of spacecraft. There are inevitably design
quirks that make a ship hard to use for one purpose but
perfect for another. A ship designer can only imagine
how a ship would be used, where people who have
worked, lived on and refitted a ship can point out
improvements. More importantly, the lifespan of most
ships far exceeds the length of time typically spent
developing a new ship class. A ship designer does not
always see these quirks manifest before the ship is
constructed and tested.

TERMINOLOGY

This lack of foresight can be seen in the cramped
cargo hold access in the Suleiman deckplan in the Ship
Walkthrough chapter, along with the problematic airlock
to holding pen route of the Animal class. This book
also covers how to modify a ship to fix such issues,
or otherwise work around them, to help you become
a knowledgeable and confident starship operator
regardless of the ship you serve on.

SPACECRAFT: A vehicle capable of travelling through
space.
STARSHIP: A spacecraft with a jump drive. Also referred
to as ‘ship’.
BOAT: A spacecraft that is not a starship.
DISPLACEMENT TON: A measurement of volume equal
to one metric ton of liquid hydrogen, roughly 13.5
cubic metres. When discussing spacecraft, ‘ton’ – if
not specified or otherwise obvious from context – most
often refers to a displacement ton.

When dealing with starships, it is useful to know the
specialised terms used in reference to them. This book
leans toward common usage by starship crews in the
Third Imperium. See for example the note about the
definition of ‘radiation’ on page 30.

DIRECTIONS ABOARD SHIP

Introduction

Not all ships have the same mission. Parts of this book
speak more to certain ship types more than others.
For example, neither the Suleiman nor the Animal
are designed to handle 4A cargo containers but an
Empress Marava can and often does. Some details of
sensors and communicators are there to help deal with

the sort of anomalies that a scout such as the Suleiman
routinely sees, which are less likely to be of use to
Animal or Empress Marava crews. While Suleimans
and Empress Maravas rarely deal with live cargo, this
is more of a concern for the Animal class.

In most languages, the terms for directions aboard a
spacecraft evolved from those in use on pre-spaceflight
wet-navy ships. These are not universal. On some ships

5

