T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SIZE CLASSES
the direction of forward motion aligns with the ship’s
gravity, perhaps making ‘fore’ and ‘dorsal’ the same. In
some cases there is no distinct ‘port’ or ‘starboard’, while
others designate ‘fore’ based on some feature that is
along an edge of the ship such as a primary docking bay.
BOW: Nose of the ship. The direction the ship is usually
moving in when underway. FORE is toward the bow.
STERN: Rear of the ship. The direction the ship is
usually moving away from when underway. AFT is
toward the stern.
DORSAL: Top surface of the ship, relative to ship’s gravity.
VENTRAL: Bottom surface of the ship, relative to ship’s
gravity.
PORT: Left side of the ship, when facing the bow and
the dorsal side is above you.
STARBOARD: Right side of the ship, when facing the
bow and the dorsal side is above you.

SHIP TYPES
There is a widespread but technically incorrect trend to
refer to the Suleiman as ‘the Type S class’, and to the
Animal as ‘the Type K class’. In truth, there is no such
thing as ‘the’ Type S or Type K. A ship’s type refers
to its primary mission. The Imperial Navy controls the
most widely used registry of mission types, such as C
for cruisers. Further codes distinguish subtypes, such
as CL or CA. The registry of mission types changes
from time-to-time, so outside the core mission type
codes, a ship that had one type code some time ago
might have a different one now.

Introduction

It has become common to assign mission type codes
to civilian ships to achieve universal coverage. A
Suleiman is a scout, therefore its mission code is S, so
it is a Type S. The Serpent class is a scout, therefore
it is a Type S as well. However, the Suleiman class is
much more widely known, so mostly when people hear
‘Type S’ they think of a Suleiman.

6

This is particularly relevant to the Empress Marava
class. Trader ships are Type A. Jump-2 capable
trader ships are Type A2. The Empress Marava is
a well-known Type A2 but so is the Hero, a jump-2
version of the Beowulf. Since ‘the Type A2 class’
could refer to either the Hero or the Empress
Marava, not to mention other jump-2 capable trader
ship classes of similar specification, 'the Type A2
class’ is ambiguous on top of being incorrect.

Starships are traditionally referred to as being in
the adventure, battle, fleet or world classes. Their
definitions have varied but are as follows in the modern
Third Imperium:
● Spacefaring vessels less than 100 displacement
tons are small craft. Being too small to have
functioning jump drives, they cannot be starships.
● Any spacecraft at least 100 displacement tons
without a jump drive is a big craft, if there is a need
to distinguish it from small craft, but is often just
called a boat. Patrol boats and system defence
boats, most often run by local law enforcement
and military respectively, tend to be those of most
concern to Travellers. Others are more often
concerned with transport boats, asteroid mining
boats and other such components of a high
technology system’s economy.
● Any ship of less than 2,500 displacement tons is
sometimes referred to as adventure class. This is
by far the majority of all ships in Charted Space
and scouts, traders, personal ships and others go
in this category. Most used starship sellers deal
exclusively in this size.
● Larger than the adventure class but smaller than
250,000 tons is the battle class. Here lie battleships,
cruisers, most large transports and freighters,
jump tenders and other ships that operate within
established interstellar infrastructure. In many cases,
the complete list of systems they will ever visit is
known before construction begins. Most medium
and high population worlds with much interstellar
trade see routine visits by ships this large.
● Beyond that but smaller than 1,000,000
displacement tons is the fleet class. Only large
polities such as the Third Imperium build ships
of this size for military use. More common are
the largest of freighters and transports built by
megacorporations, plying the wealthiest trade
routes where efficiencies of scale can be fully
exploited. Most large colony ships fall in this class.
● All larger ships make up the world class.
These are rare titanic things of legend, be they
superweapons or carriers of entire populations.
Even among those who travel the stars for a
living, most never encounter one outside of
fictional or historical depictions.
As with ship type codes, these terms were originally
military, but usage spread over time. They remain in use
even if a 500,000 ton colony ship might not lead a fleet
and a 200,000 ton freighter will seek to avoid battle.

R

