HULL
A ship’s hull is its most important component. If there
is only a hull, there is at least a hulk that, in most
systems, one can apply for salvage rights to. Without
a hull, there is at most a collection of parts and debris.
Destruction of a ship’s hull is generally recognised as
destruction of the ship.
Starship hulls are not a simple mass of inert metal. Jump
drive emitters, sensor nodes, lifters along the bottom
of the ship and other such systems are woven through
material thick enough to hold an atmosphere against both
the vacuum of space and enemy action. Some starship
technicians consider the hull to be alive, with coolant runs
and structural ribs in place of blood and bones.

FEATURES

‘spacecraft’. Notably, most grav vehicles which can
reach space lack some of these features; partly the
reason why they are not referred to as spacecraft.

ARTIFICIAL GRAVITY AND INTEGRATED LIFTERS

While going without artificial gravity is technically an
option, it is so common that most people treat it as a
standard feature of all spacecraft. Lifters are marginally
rarer but are essential on any spacecraft intended to
land. Both systems rely on gravitic technology to function
– see the Gravitics chapter on page 74 for more detail.
‘Artificial gravity’ in common parlance refers specifically
to grav plates, as other methods such as spin or thrust
gravity can only mimic gravitational acceleration.

ELEMENTS OF LIFE SUPPORT

Most spacecraft and space station hulls share the
same features, available from TL9 if not earlier. These
have been refined over thousands of years and are
considered essential to any vehicle worth the title of

As discussed more in Life Support, starting on page 25,
space is an extremely hostile environment. Thus, most
hulls supply the environmental conditions necessary to
keep occupants alive. These systems are among the
most reliable on a ship and consume negligible power.

Void

Soil

Air

Fire

Water

8

LIGHTING

FRESHER

HEATING

AIR FILTER/VENT

WATER DISPENSER

AIRLOCK

Gas

