SENSOR NODES

As noted in Sensors and Communications, starting
on page 66, many ships use their entire length as one
large synthetic aperture array. This means distributing
cameras, antennas, and other sensor hardware over
the hull. Typically, these are in small nodes mounted
beneath external armoured ports which are translucent
to the signals the sensors are intended to detect.

JUMP DRIVE EMITTERS
Any spacecraft with a jump drive needs a way to enter
jumpspace. This takes the form of thousands or millions
of emitters built into the hull, with a density comparable
to pores on skin. Each emitter must activate in a
precise sequence at a rapid pace to make a successful
jump entry. Although this is notoriously complex, such
that only computer control can perform the task, there
is no known alternative. Using a smaller number
of emitters or taking several milliseconds between
activations results in only part of the hull being covered
by the jump bubble before it collapses, resulting in a
misjump. The presence of jump drive emitters in every
square metre – with the attendant feeds for power, data
and jump fuel – is often the easiest way to distinguish
hull material intended for starships from that planned
for other spacecraft. For more detail on how jump
drives work, see page 82.

BASIC RADIATION PROTECTION

Most spacecraft and space station hulls can indefinitely
protect their inhabitants from ordinary background
radiation and, if a major solar flare threatens, either
manoeuvre to place themselves in a shielded location
or rotate to place most of their hull between the flare
and the crew. On low TL spacecraft this protection
comes from mass. Once the technology is available,
magnetic fields (tiny, low-powered magnetospheres)
are a more practical solution. Nuclear damper
technology partially stems from work on these radiation
protection systems. For more detail, see Radiation
Protection starting on page 30.

On modern spacecraft, structural reinforcement as
well as power and surface area limitations mean the
accepted limit is one ‘hardpoint’ per 100 displacement
tons, while small craft have a number of ‘firmpoints’.
Most ship-scale weapons take up one of these points,
with downrated versions mounted on firmpoints. These
points are notional until the hardware and fire control
systems are installed. While the cost of this is often
negligible next to the cost of the weapon, installing a
new weapon system to use a spare hardpoint often
requires minor redesign of a ship. Sophonts have been

For example, a 200 ton Animal could host two weapons
but only comes with one double turret. Upgrading the
double turret to a triple turret is easier than adding a
second turret, thanks to standardised fittings and the
complications of hull modification. An informal survey
suggests it is more common for those that have two
weapons to use their second hardpoint to host a fixed
mount weapon than add a second turret or barbette.
More details are in Weapons and Defences, starting on
page 99.

SELF-SEALING
Several methods have been developed for hulls
to automatically seal small ruptures, such as from
micrometeoroids or light weapons fire. Some weave
capillaries throughout the hull that extrude sealant
when breached, while others have small robots either
constantly patrolling or dispatched when a breach
is detected. Some employ double hulls – essentially
crawlspaces – that contain small breaches to the outer
layer, whereas others seal off the affected area internally.

LANDING GEAR

Any ship intended for orbital interface and landing,
such as traders intending to use downports, scout ships
surveying alien worlds or any sort of transport shuttle,
must mount landing gear. Ships planning to solely
utilise orbital installations need not bother.
Most ships use pads or skids that extend and retract
for landing. Having a pair of skids is simpler than
maintaining individual pads and legs on each corner
of a ship but is less effective for wilderness landings.
Ships with skids are meant to only ever land at
starports. Some pads, particularly at higher Tech
Levels, can unfold or extend to present more area
and thus reduce ground pressure. There are tales
of Travellers who landed in the wilderness without a
problem, got out of their ship and began sinking into
soft ground because the ground pressure of their boots
was much greater than the ground pressure of their
ship’s landing gear.

Hull

HARDPOINTS AND FIRMPOINTS

trying to put more weapons on spacecraft for over ten
thousand years. Using more weapons on a ship results
in structural damage to the ship, the weapons tearing
free and/or having insufficient power.

To move short distances over the ground, the ship
engages lifters to take off, hovering less than a metre if
the local terrain is flat, then flies where it needs to go and
lands again. Some ships use wheels but these are rare.
The most common wheel configuration is three sets,
either one under the forward centre and each rear corner

9

