T

or one under the rear centre and each front corner. They
are only useful on streamlined ships without lifters, which
rely on traditional aerodynamic lift to leave the ground
and can only land at downports with long runways. Even
in these cases, it is often simpler to design the ship to
land on its manoeuvre or reaction drive, an arrangement
called a ‘tailsitter’, as the engine is at the bottom of the
ship rather than the rear.
Points of contact with the ground are often the most
reinforced on a ship. In terms of protection from small
arms they are equal to bulkheads, although using them
for cover in a firefight is not recommended as they
often have gaps that bullets can pass through, as well
as risking damage to the less-reinforced inner parts of
the landing gear. Stability and ground clearance are
typical design concerns; well-designed, well-maintained
landing gear will insulate the ship from minor ground
tremors and allow sophonts to walk under the ship.

Hull

CONTROL CENTRE

10

This refers to any system by which the ship may be
controlled. The most common form, a ‘bridge’, takes the
form of a room fulfilling this function through one or more
control stations. Alternative forms may be a cockpit on a
small craft or a robotic ship’s central computer. Whatever
form it takes, it is the ship’s nerve centre. Many designs
make it the most defensible part of the ship. On smaller
ships, it is the default location that crew gather during
missions for constant updates, as most ship actions
can be performed there. This focus of staying on the

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

bridge leads directly to its frequent use as an informal
commons, especially on ships without extensive
facilities, such as the Suleiman class.
In certain military designs, the bridge is at the ship’s
centre for protection. This would be of little help in any
serious combat for most small ships, particularly any
with only one or two decks, which lack enough volume
to have a large protected core. Otherwise, it is useful to
place this area near the bow to give direct lines of sight
to nearby close hazards and aid with docking, landing
or manoeuvring. Comfort and security can argue for
placing the bridge in the bow of non-combat ships. In
one case, a trader’s competitor gained access to their
virtual cockpit and booted up a flight simulator. The
trader’s crew thought they took off and did a perfect
jump entry, only to be awoken 12 hours after their
supposed departure by starport security banging on
their airlock wanting to know why they were still on the
pad and not answering hails. The competitor beat them
to the next system, winning a significant contract.
On all but the most relaxed-security ships, access to
the bridge is limited to one or a few entrances, with
iris valves to maintain pressure if there is a hull breach
elsewhere. These will usually be set to open for crew
only; non-crew are only permitted as accompanied
guests and must leave before the last crew leaves
the bridge, in the rare situations where the bridge is
unoccupied for any length of time. This protects not
just the crew stations but also the vehicle emergency
kit described under Emergency Rescue Equipment

R

