on page 33. Some of the bag’s contents, in particular
the disassembled survival rifle, would be useful to a
hijacker if left unsecured.

OPTIONS
Not all hulls are identical. A living ship designed only
to hold one standard atmosphere and a dead metal
pressure vessel able to handle 100-atmosphere
pressures are hard to confuse for one another.

SELF-HEALING ORGANIC AND POLYMER HULLS
Biotech hulls have some ability to regenerate
themselves, going well beyond the self-sealing
capabilities of most hulls. Engineered from artificial
biomass, these hulls contain organic proteins that bond
together like a body repairing from a cut or scratch.
While this process takes time, it is a marvel to watch as
the hull sutures itself back together.
TL10 polymer hulls heal themselves slower than TL12
organic hulls. However, it is much easier to mix more
polymer from their base components and repair on
the go than for a standard metal hull. New polymer is
spread or laid over the hull breach and heated to bond
with the old polymer, creating an airtight seal.

NON-GRAVITY HULLS

Not all spacecraft have artificial gravity. Some utilise
spin or thrust gravity, while others work with none at all.

Some non-gravity boats are constructed under the
assumption that they will usually be under acceleration
provided by reaction drives, thus providing thrust
gravity. This assumption is true if there is infrastructure,
such as for passenger shuttles, to transfer to at either
end of the journey or if the boat is constructed for a
single one-way journey, such as cargo or colonist
transfer within a system. This is an expensive
proposition, so such ships are constructed as cheaply
as possible, giving a reputation for unreliability. Without
this infrastructure, the vessel winds up spending
significant time in orbit or microgravity.

AQUATIC OPTIONS

Most ships can float but many mistake a ship’s space
worthiness for an ability to go underwater. While going
underwater requires the ship to be airtight – which
spacecraft are – a much stronger hull is needed to
withstand the pressure of ocean water. Most starships
are built to withstand pressure differentials of up to
one atmosphere. Diving about 10 metres into a typical
ocean is equivalent to one atmosphere; the pressure
increases the further down a ship goes and, unlike
in space, pushes inward rather than out. Gas giants
feature high pressure deep in their atmospheres and
this is why diving a typical starship deep into an ocean
or gas giant is not recommended. A few starships
can handle higher pressures thanks to structural
reinforcement and good external hatch design,
typically research vessels or system defence boats
intended for ambushes.

Hull

With spin gravity, a structure – typically a cylinder
or wheel – rotates such that the centrifugal force on
someone standing inside it imitates gravity, in a sort of
inverse of how orbiting a planet works. This simulated
‘gravity’ tapers off linearly as one progresses toward
the centre: if there is 1G at the outer rim, there is
0.5G halfway to the centre and 0G when at the
axis of rotation. This gradient is more intense on
smaller ships so it is rarely used, although there are
exceptions such as laboratory ships that sometimes
run experiments where this is useful. It is more
common on cylindrical space stations of a minimum
of half a kilometre in diameter, where a non-rotating
central axis facilitates docking, with curved elevator
tracks accelerating and decelerating passenger transit
to and from the rotating outer section. Long-term
residents of such stations acclimatise to the subtle
differences, such as a Coriolis effect that creates a
pull to the right or left when moving with or against
the direction of rotation. Manoeuvring is more difficult
when employing spin gravity but any modern flight
control software is more than up to the task.

Ships meant for long-term habitation without any form
of gravity are rare, as almost all sophonts are optimised
for existence in a gravity field. The deleterious effects
of living in different gravities are well-documented and
typically less than those of living in no gravity. While
there are treatments and adaptations available, the
general medical consensus is that most sophonts
should spend a few hours of each day, preferably the
majority, in some sort of significant gravity. For humans
and others who trace their genetic origins to Terra, the
recommended minimum is 0.05G. This is why worlds
with less than 0.05G are either not colonised or have
artificial gravity plates installed. However, exposure to
microgravity is not immediately fatal to most sophonts,
so ships without gravity are sometimes constructed,
especially by worlds unable to build or buy grav
plates, mainly TL7–8 worlds newly establishing or
reestablishing spaceflight.

Some aquatic sophonts have found their submersible
vehicles work well as the basis for spacecraft designs.
Their spacecraft can easily handle the pressure of
deep oceans or gas giant atmospheres, making them

11

