T

popular for those who want to engage in gas giant or
underwater mining. Marketing for these ships often
compares other ships to tin cans, grapes or other
notably non-pressure-resistant objects.

CONFIGURATIONS

The shape of a hull has a significant impact on the
craft’s flight characteristics when passing through an
atmosphere or hydrosphere. While most spacecraft
spend the vast majority of their time in space, the
tiny minority of time not in a vacuum is vital. Most
exceptions travel only from highport to highport,
relying on small craft when they need to interact with
a world beneath an atmosphere. A hull streamlined for
atmosphere manoeuvres well in hydrospheres as well,
although optimal liquid-surface performance requires
different configurations and diving any significant depth
necessitates a pressure-resistant hull. Hull shapes can
be broken into four categories.

STREAMLINED, AIRFRAME AND LIFTING BODY
Most small craft and small ships are designed to
operate within an atmosphere, in order to access
starports on the ground. Many larger ships also make
such trips, whether from a need to directly transit
atmospheres or just out of tradition from the local
shipyards’ early days of spaceflight. There is some
debate about the maximum theoretical size of ship that
could fly in an atmosphere, especially since virtually all
ships have manoeuvre drives that would let them ‘fly’
without streamlining.

Hull

Standards bodies do not universally agree about the
proper degree of distinction within this category. Some
denote all streamlined ships the same, while others
distinguish generically streamlined hulls such as bullet
and clamshell shapes from those with wings or that are
otherwise specifically airframes, as well as from those
that go even further and shape the entire hull as one
giant lifting body.
Cones, cylinders, disks, domes, needles, rings,
saucers, spheres and wedges are common shapes
when wings are not used.

STANDARD UNSTREAMLINED

This typical, default shape is optimised for efficient
operation in space rather than atmosphere and is thus
not streamlined. Some call this ‘partially streamlined’
to distinguish from hull shapes that are even less

12

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

capable in the air. Most shapes in this category come in
streamlined versions, such as a cylindrical unstreamlined
hull that can be given rounded edges and otherwise
reshaped into a streamlined cylindrical hull.
Boxy and slab-like hulls are common, as are
unstreamlined versions of non-winged streamlined
shapes. Spherical hulls without an emphasis on
streamlining can be included in this classification.

CLUSTER STRUCTURE

This category typically has two or more hulls, possibly
a main hull and one or more subhulls, bound together
with struts. These are favoured when certain systems
must be kept apart from primary crew space for health
or security reasons. Very rarely could these concerns
not be dealt with by a more standard hull, although
this solution usually works well when employed. They
are used when cost is a concern as creating multiple
sections separately is faster, cheaper and easier to
repair than fabricating a singular cohesive hull. Some
groupings distinguish cluster hulls by how close or
dispersed the structure is, others by whether there is
significant bracing.
Overall shape tends to be less relevant for cluster
hulls. Certain sculptors, who fashion small depictions
of starships with no need for functionality, prefer cluster
hulls for their freedom of expression.

PLANETOID
This style is the least expensive option for a hull that
does not have missions requiring passage through an
atmosphere. Giant rocks are present in any colonised
system but not just any rock will do. Silicate planetoids
are preferred over carbonaceous or metallic ones and
the rock should be solid rather than a rubble pile, but
finding a suitable one rarely takes much effort. Simply
locate one of the right size or cut the right size from a
larger rock, then drill into it. Planetoid hulls are shaped
like the rocks they came from but when a hull is cut
from a larger rock, common construction techniques
typically make the hull somewhere between boxy and
ovoid. It is common to note if the builder hollowed out
a low amount of rock, as many shipyards will buffer the
hull with extra structure and armour.
It is technically possible to move these hulls through air
without destroying them but only at low speeds within
extremely controlled environments with no wind or
weather at all, such as within a highport’s hangar.

R

