ARMOUR TECHNOLOGIES
Improved technologies directly impact the materials
available to construct spacecraft hulls. Some break
this down for each Tech Level but it is more useful
to consider broad ranges, within which high or low
technology versions can be considered advanced or
prototype forms of the main technology. Even on ships
with hulls thin enough that they are not considered
‘armoured’, these materials provide basic protection
against the rigours of space travel.
In each case, where windows are used in place of
external cameras feeding viewscreens, there are
transparent options of comparable strength. These
are usually slightly weaker, so these portions of the
hull are built thicker. Entirely transparent hulls are very
rare for multiple reasons, primarily that the sensor
nodes and jump emitters that must cover the hull
would prevent perfect transparency. There have been
enough comparisons made to inhabited spaceborne
greenhouses to curb most efforts to create such a hull.

METALS: CIRCA TL7

Prior to the utilisation of crystaliron, the most useful
materials for armour are raw elemental material, alloys
or composites. This goes back to TL1 and is why most
primitive civilisations have a ‘bronze age’, ‘iron age’ and
so forth. Each metal that replaces the previous age is
stronger and more durable. By the point that spaceflight
becomes practical at TL6, electrically extracted
aluminium is available, commonly replaced by steel or
titanium alloys at TL7 and carbon fibre laminates at TL8.

CRYSTALIRON: CIRCA TL10

BONDED SUPERDENSE: CIRCA TL14
Collapsing the molecular structure of iron produces
a material completely unknown to nature, outside of
degenerate stars such as white dwarfs and neutron

That is as good as it gets for most ships, although
there are prototypes of a refinement to the superdense
bonding process that seems likely to become the
standard for TL16 armour. This is referred to as
‘molecular bonded’ or ‘hullmetal’ armour.

COATINGS

Although many hulls utilise some form of decoration,
such as paint at lower TLs, with anodised metals and
holographic displays becoming available later, coatings
refers to those that optimise aspects of the ship to
better serve its intended role. Most of these options are
mutually exclusive.
Reflec coatings help protect a ship by reflecting light
and heat. This gives the ship added protection against
laser weapons, which are one of the more common
forms of spacecraft armament. However, this is both
an expensive modification and can hamper a ship’s
stealth, as the same reflective properties that defend
against laser weapons make the ship far more visible
to most forms of spacecraft sensor. Although perfect
stealth is impossible, lower detectability can still buy
valuable time to evade a pursuer. As a result, most
ships will favour sandcaster batteries to defend against
lasers, as they are cheaper and more versatile. See
page 103 for details on sandcasters.
Similarly, a ‘slick’ coating can keep the enemy from
using tractors and pressors to pull or push the ship.
The idea originally started from people coating a
wall or piece of machinery with a coating of oil so
any grappling hooks, ropes or chains would slip off.
The modern version for starships involves a coating
of gravitic circuitry that provides the same kind of
protection making tractors and pressors, detailed on
page 105, slip off the hull. This is especially helpful
where piracy is prevalent, to keep traders from being
grabbed and their cargoes plundered. However, where
piracy is prevalent, legal shipyards may instead stop
selling slick coating to help law enforcement catch
pirate ships more easily.

Hull

Synthetic crystal production, initially created to make
artificial gems such as sapphires and diamonds
in industrially useful sizes and shapes, eventually
becomes able to grow perfect metals. Entire slabs
of armour can be single crystals of iron interspersed
with precisely positioned impurities, creating a
material without any internal structural weakness.
More critical to the practical adoption of crystaliron are
the crystal growth and shaping tools to repair such
armour, at shipyards if not in the field, after inevitable
micrometeorite damage, deformation from the heat
of atmospheric entry, and other wear. Some divide
crystaliron into grades: ‘dense’ at TL10, crystaliron
proper at TL11 and composites at TL12.

stars. This ‘superdense’ often sees use in buildings
before vehicles and one of the Third Imperium’s earliest
uses was making hard-to-forge currency in a project
named ‘gravcoins’, an evolution of which is still in the
design of modern Imperial Credits. Bonded superdense
has its electron bonds reinforced by electric currents and
nuclear dampers in a refinement to the gravitic forge.
As with other armour technologies, this is divided into
grades: lite metal at TL13, superdense proper at TL14
and vlite metal – short for ‘very light metal’ – at TL15.

13

