T

Solar coatings are little more than an outer layer
of solar panels, usually serving as backups for the
primary power plant, sometimes replacing it on space
stations. Unlike deployable solar panels, they are
conformal to a ship’s hull and cannot retract, with all
the drawbacks that implies. While sometimes shiny
like reflec coatings, they do not offer the same antilaser benefits. Ships with black globe generators,
as described on page 106, sometimes use solar
coatings, especially useful while drifting.
An ‘ablat’ coating is designed to burn off the ship,
keeping the underlayers protected, meaning it must be
reapplied regularly. While many believe that one could
just keep stacking layer upon layer of ablat on the hull,
even measuring a given level of effectiveness and
remaining strength in multiples of a standard reference
coating, an ablat coating is only one layer. Multiple
layers of the same material either fail to adhere or
cause the undercoating to become weakened and flake
easier. How long this one layer can take the heat before
it burns off depends on the components, which improve
by Tech Level as better materials are developed.
‘Anti-layers’ specialise in protection from blasts,
electromagnetic pulses and kinetic impacts. Nonablative heat shielding is an early form of this,
necessary for spacecraft without manoeuvre drives to
safely enter atmospheres. By far the most common
anti-layer is ‘anti-rad’, better known as radiation
protection. Basic radiation protection is standard on
most ships. Protection against weapons specifically

R

A

V

E

L

L

designed to overwhelm with radiation is another matter,
but ships can be built with extra shielding. Even when
the entire hull does not have this coating, any ship
weapon that fires significant amounts of radiation will
have shielding around the weapon’s mount, so that
firing it does not harm the crew.
Less often seen are options for camouflage. While
light emitting diodes and programmable paints can
change the colour scheme of a ship, holographic hulls
take it a step further, able to simulate battle damage or
slightly different shapes. Going even further, extending
beyond the realm of mere coatings, a hull can be
built to shapeshift, acquiring the silhouette of another
ship of the same tonnage. These ships tend to have
electronics to give off emissions similar to the ship
they are pretending to be. This is useful for fitting odd
shapes of cargo, such as the Nishemani pirate ship that
was built to envelop disabled 100 ton ships, regardless
of its prey’s exact dimensions.
Ships with an emphasis on stealth use a polarised
coating that can switch on or off to absorb or deflect
sensors. This expensive coating is popular among
those wanting to hide their ship’s presence, such as
naval scouts or commerce raiders, not to mention
corsairs. Some pirates claim the cost for this coating
pushes them into a life of piracy to pay for it, while
shipyards refute this claim, stating that most ship
owners who are interested in this coating were already
heading for questionable business practices. Blockade
runners and smugglers favour stealth coatings.

Close
Slider
pivot

Pulley system

Control
panel

Hull

Manual
control
hatch

Fixed ring

Rotating ring

Fixed pivot

BULKHEAD
Open

IRIS VALVE OPENING

14

E

R

