INTERNAL TRANSIT

Corridors are as old as caves. Doors are almost
as ancient. Sliding doors are more common than
swinging on ships, as the latter require space to
be kept clear, while the former are easier to open
or close against a pressure differential. However,
neither is as easy to make airtight nor as compact
as the iris valve, so these are found anywhere where
it is necessary to stop changes in atmosphere. As
they are harder to bypass than doors, they have also

UNRESPONSIVE DOORS

If a door will not open when you think it should,
first make sure it would be safe for you to go
through the door. If you do not have a vacc suit
on and this is an airlock or leading to a damaged
section of the ship, the door may be trying to
save your life by not opening. If your ship uses
access control devices, verify that you have
yours and that it is operational. Should your ship
use biometrics, check you are clean: grease,
lubrication oil or carbon dust can obscure facial
features and fingerprints. Many times, it is easier
to check if there is another usable passage.
For an iris valve, find the iris crank opener that
should be stored next to the valve, probably
under the intercom terminal. Insert it into
the slot at the corner of the door and turn it
counterclockwise. If the iris valve begins to open,
continue until you hear it latch, then remove the
opener. Do not step through an unlatched iris
valve unless in an extreme emergency. If it does
not rotate, the door is bolted or jammed. Beating
on the plates with the iris crank opener should
be audible on the far side and attract attention if
there is anyone beyond.

Another consideration is corridors, sometimes known
as passageways. As there is only so much space
inside a ship, most of which is given to various
important systems, space for accessways is always
at a premium. Corridors must be carefully laid out if
they are to connect everything, rather than just jam
room next to room and force people to tromp through
the engineering space to go from the bridge to the
commons. Cargo bays are notoriously prone to this sort
of misuse, as most plans show them empty and they
are rarely completely filled, leading to problems when
the ship does take on all the cargo it can fit. Some large
ships feature moving corridors, replacing sections of
floor with conveyor belts to move people along a long,
straight corridor but on small ships this is impractical.
Handholds or other protrusions line these corridors
on ships or sections of ships designed without
gravity. On ships with gravity these may still be
present but usually tucked away so as not to impede
movement, automatically emerging should gravity
fail. Groups of handholds are independently powered
by a fusion cell (see Power Cells on page 21), so
this mechanism will work even if the ship suffers
extensive damage. Handholds can also be found on
the hull exterior, although are rarely retractable on
unstreamlined spacecraft.
Trains and other internal mass transit options are only
practical for large structures in space, well beyond
the scope of this book. Even many large freighters
and military capital ships are too small. Anything large
enough to justify extensive internal mass transit is not
so much a ship as a habitat, potentially an outpost or a
colony. Some single-use colony ships, designed to be
disassembled at their destination, have internal mass
transit designed for expansion upon turning the ship
into the colony’s initial infrastructure.

Hull

If the above does not work, use the ship’s
internal comm network to call the bridge for help.
All areas that can be locked off have a minimum
of one fixed mount comm nearby. Should that
fail, this is a potential emergency and more
extreme measures such as deconstructing the
door are warranted. You may be being trained by
your crew to deal with emergencies; if so, treat it
as a real emergency.

become standard for security-conscious thresholds,
such as bridge entrances. Dents or foreign objects
that keep an individual plate of an iris valve from
moving only stop that plate, allowing the rest to
slide. These tend only to prevent full opening, not
full closing, so anyone who wishes to damage an iris
valve to force it open is better off breaking a plate. All
doors aboard a typical ship, iris valves included, are
motorised, opening and closing either under control
of the ship upon detecting an authorised person or
from a nearby control panel. Manual backups in case
of power loss are usually present, save for the most
secure of doors such as airlocks.

15

