T

CRAWLSPACES
Although the inner and outer hulls of a ship receive
the most attention, there is a region between them
that deserves special mention. Found directly beneath
the outer hull, between bulkheads of the inner hull and
decks, a ship’s crawlspaces act as damage buffers
and cable runs. These are rarely marked on formal
deckplans, as most of a ship’s crew will never need to
access them. They do not exist inside all walls; many
are too thin, while others are solid. Builders construct
them with an eye toward thermal and/or sonic isolation
of the adjacent spaces. The crawlspace is often used
for routing pipes and cables.

Hull

The crawlspace exists outside of the life support
systems within the inner hull. Although typically
airtight, the crawlspace is invariably at the extremes
of the temperature range and may even lack artificial
gravity. Some may think to don a vacc suit before
entering the crawlspace and this is the recommended
procedure, particularly while performing damage
control. However, this can make an already cramped
environment near-impossible to navigate. Even if the
engineer foregoes a vacc suit to manoeuvre more
easily, a respirator should be worn as these spaces can
easily develop a hostile environment due to the lack of

16

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

fans or purification equipment. They are more at risk
of sudden depressurisation, even if not normally kept
depressurised. For these reasons, maintenance on
systems within the crawlspace is often left to the most
junior engineer if it cannot be done via drone. Anyone
going into a crawlspace should ensure that someone is
on standby before entering – becoming trapped there is
a poor way to die.
Crawlspaces have become infamous for many of these
reasons, although enterprising engineers can make
good use of them. Especially on small ships, they
allow an engineer to access almost any point on the
ship with or without permission, as most crawlspace
access is through direct removal of hull panels. This
is slow but effective. Many an engineer’s wrench
suddenly cracking across their head has foiled a
would-be boarder. Their infamy leads most to ignore
them. Smugglers try to take advantage of this, storing
goods several metres clear of any access hatches,
although starport inspectors looking for contraband are
quite familiar with this trick, bringing their own drones
to search these places. This can allow stowaways to
hide aboard ship, assuming the engineer is lax in their
maintenance, although anyone considering this should
be careful to bring a good respirator or leave a hull
panel partially open. Refer to page 62 for more detail
about stowaways.

R

