POWER SYSTEMS
After the hull, power is the most vital system on any
ship. Without it, a ship is an inert mass drifting through
space, unable to do anything. The excessive demands
of the manoeuvre and jump drives necessitate the
generation of large amounts of power. With excess
energy available, standard life support systems have
adapted to use it and thereby minimise their mass
consumption, greatly extending ship endurance.
As with the rest of the book, the technical explanations
in this chapter are merely mostly accurate summaries.
Those wishing to construct their own power plants
should consult more specialised manuals and avail
themselves of expert assistance. The best place to
experiment and build one’s first unit is in the classroom,
or at least under close supervision of tutorial software
written for this exact purpose and tested to resolve
common misunderstandings.

COMMON POWER SYSTEMS
Fusion power plants are the dominant standard for
spacecraft, with solar power the second most common
method, as these require minimal amounts of mass to
function. This limitation is one of the biggest differences
from planetary power plants, where mass is supplied
more easily. These are not the only options but most
starship crew, even non-engineers, should at minimum
know the basics of these two processes.
While large, older or alien ships may have
more bespoke designs, nearly all modern ships
manufactured within the Third Imperium use some
evolution of the Fusion+ process introduced by Cleon I.
Aside from using the same liquid hydrogen fuel as the
jump drive, making storage simpler, the main practical
impact is that any given power plant engineer has
worked on something similar previously. This makes its
impact easy to underestimate. Before Fusion+, fusion
plants from Vland and Terra could be as different from
each other as they were to fission.
Fusion+ is associated with the Third Imperium for
historical reasons, as many took the technology and
distributed, copied or independently reinvented it
throughout Charted Space. Fusion+ was invented

in -28 by Cleon’s cousin, Aldin Zhunastu, while
employed by Zhunastu Industrial Laboratories,
which was the part of the company that Cleon had a
controlling interest in. Historical reports are muddied
as to exactly how much involvement Cleon had in the
actual creation and early development but it is clear
that the commercial success of Fusion+ starting in
-10 was instrumental to the rise of Cleon’s fortunes
and the founding of the Third Imperium. This strong
association is a large part of the reason why advanced
fusion processes developed in the Third Imperium
continue to be called ‘an evolution of Fusion+’ rather
than a completely new process, so long as they are
broadly similar to previous models.
The basic process behind Fusion+ is as follows:
1. Heat hydrogen atoms to a plasma state, contained
by an array of magnetic and gravitic pressors, so
they break into protons and electrons.
2. Use nuclear dampers to stimulate beta decay,
turning half of the protons into neutrons, releasing
neutrinos that escape and positrons that annihilate
with electrons.
3. Ram lone protons into neutrons, turning them into
deuterium nuclei and releasing energy as photons.
4. Use gravitic separation to separate the deuterium
nuclei from the lone protons and neutrons.
5. Ram them into more neutrons, turning them into
tritium nuclei and releasing energy as photons.
6. Use gravitic separation to separate the tritium
nuclei from the deuterium nuclei and neutrons.
7. Ram them into protons, turning them into helium
nuclei and releasing energy as photons.
8. Use gravitic separation to separate the helium
nuclei from the tritium nuclei and protons.
9. Let the helium nuclei cool down enough to accept
their electrons back.
10. Vent the helium.
As should be readily apparent, this process is highly
dependent on the availability of gravitics and nuclear
dampers, which is why even inefficient prototypes do not
appear before TL9. Sensor operators across Charted
Space are familiar with escaping neutrinos and a
common way to scan for an operating fusion power plant
is to look for something giving off lots of neutrinos.

17

