T

Power Systems

This process requires active regulation. If the fuel
shuts off, the reactor is cracked and plasma escapes,
the nuclear dampers shut down so protons resume
repelling each other and no more neutrons are
manufactured, or any other failure scenarios occur,
the process ceases. There is no significant explosion
from vented plasma. Even deliberate sabotage,
unless it directly damages the reactor, leaves most
parts in working order.

18

Any fusion power plant includes a rechargeable power
storage block to provide power to heat hydrogen
and run the operation until it starts generating power,
referred to as a ‘black start’. By far the most common
mistake operators make is to tap this block for any
other purpose. In an emergency, if the reaction is
generating enough power that this will be recharged
and a momentary burst of power will help, this is
forgivable. In most cases, those conditions are unmet,
so diverting this power either is useless or makes
things worse. Fusion power plants have safeguards to
prevent draining this block when the plant is shut down,
requiring deliberate effort to bypass.
The main problem with fusion reactions is that they
need an extremely high energy density to achieve
temperatures in the hundreds of millions of degrees.
This tends to have deleterious effects on both matter
and the reaction itself. Without gravitics and nuclear
dampers, the only way to reach the desired energy
density is with high-energy lasers or magnetic
compaction, and the only methods to keep the plasma
confined are magnetic fields and wishful thinking.
This requires more energy to control. Due to these

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

factors, the lowest TL advanced fusion reactors are
heavy and bulky, unsuitable for starship use. Improper
maintenance can cause a high TL reactor to revert to
these processes and need shielding installed.
Gravitic containment is helpful in preventing the
reaction from touching the reactor, which would shut
down the plant by supercooling the reacting plasma.
Nuclear dampers allow lowering the interatomic binding
forces between particles. This in turn allows fusion
reaction pathways to take place at lower temperatures
at a corresponding loss in efficiency. A modern fusion
reactor is hot but not at star-core temperatures, many
topping out at tens of thousands to a few million
degrees. The limiting factor is the physical structure of
the reaction chamber, with higher TL chambers more
resistant to thermal flux, allowing a higher reaction
temperature with less required damping as well as
more useful extraction of power.
Solar power is much less varied. When strong light
strikes a material manufactured with carefully controlled
impurities, it dislodges electrons across part of a circuit.
If both sides of this material are properly wired, the
electrons have an easier time returning to where they
came from by following the wires rather than crossing
back through the material. This forms a current that
can be tapped for electrical power. The primary
variance is in the exact materials used which affect
the wavelengths of light absorbed, amount of voltage
generated per square metre, useful lifespan and more.
The light of a nearby star constitutes a strong light,
although small voltages can be generated from typical
indoor lights. Distant starlight or the light of jumpspace

R

