REACTOR PROTOCOL

○

There are those who say that if you are not
scared of nuclear processes, you do not know
them well enough to maintain a fission or
fusion reactor. This is false knowledge. To the
uninitiated, ‘be scared’ sounds like competent
reactor technicians must be constantly
running around in a state of panic, which
would be the opposite of useful. ‘Be careful’ is
much more appropriate.
Study the processes. Practise in safe
simulations so that when you inevitably mess
up, you survive and learn. Memorise what to
do, so you will not spend time you will not have
during emergencies to look things up. Only try
the real thing once you can handle simulations
by rote. Use automation when available;
no one will be impressed that you can do
everything robots do but those who know
how to responsibly oversee fission and fusion
power plants may be alarmed if you attempt to
do a robot’s work for no good reason.
For instance, the most common startup
problems of fusion power plants can be
diagnosed mostly by paying attention to the
plant’s temperature, pressure, neutrino flux and
power sensors, readouts of which are visible
on the default display of almost any console
configured to operate a fusion power plant.
●

●

●

Power Systems

Failure to reach operating temperature,
as detected by thermal sensors in the
chamber, without an increase in pressure
is usually due to insufficient available
power supply during pre-heat. Verify that
the power storage block has sufficient
available power for startup and check its
connection to the reactor.
○ It is not necessary to abort startup while
troubleshooting this issue while at a
port if startup power can be provided,
athough not all ports can: Class E and
X ports have nothing to generate power,
while a Class A port might run into
political or bureaucratic troubles with
providing power to a docked ship.

●

If this occurs where there is no backup
to the power storage block, immediately
shut off power output from the power
plant until the block is fully charged. This
should not be an issue, as a power plant
should not be providing power while
starting up. Do not wait for confirmation,
as exhausting a ship’s power with a
shutdown reactor in deep space is a
one-way ticket to becoming stranded at
worst or deeply embarrassed at best.
Failure to reach operating temperature but
achieving a significant increase in pressure is
evidence of a gravitic pressor misalignment.
Shut down the pre-heat and troubleshoot the
gravitics, starting by running them section-bysection, and comparing field output strength.
Any section with a different strength needs to
be replaced. In extreme emergencies this can
be overridden but it will permanently damage
the reactor within minutes.
Exceeding operating temperature without
detectable neutrino flux is evidence
of a failure of the nuclear dampers.
Shut the reactor down and commence
troubleshooting. Since a lack of neutron
manufacture means no neutrons to fuse
with, this cannot be overridden except in
cases of partial failure and is inadvisable for
the same reasons as above.
Reaching fusion temperature with
neutrinos detected but the ship’s power still
discharging is evidence of a failure in the
electrical conversion machinery. Shutdown is
recommended but not required, as the plant
can remain operational at minimum power
if there is another source of electrical power
available. If used, ensure the power storage
block does not remain drained for long.

19

