T

are insufficient to generate significant power, so
for starships this is a backup option for in-system
operations at most.
Fusion power plants have a maximum recommended
rate of power generation. Much like most vehicles have
a maximum recommended speed but are capable
of going faster for brief periods, fusion power plants
can be ‘overclocked’ for short periods, generating
more power. This does not significantly increase fuel
consumption but does increase wear and tear on the
plant, for instance by reducing pressor strength to allow
a greater volume of plasma, which risks some plasma
reaching and damaging the reactor wall.

ELECTRICAL POWER CONVERSION

Power Systems

Most shipboard systems run off electricity rather than
direct thermal input or radiation flux. Therefore, the
power plant’s output must be converted into electricity.
Two common methods of accomplishing this are direct
radiation conversion and closed-cycle turbines.

20

Radiation conversion is performed through the use of a
sphere of extremely high-purity photovoltaics inside the
reaction chamber, kept separate by gravitics pressing
the plasma away, effectively forming an invisible wall.
These photovoltaics are optimised for high-energy
photon input and have an extremely high energy
capture efficiency at 99.8% or greater when initially
installed. These are optimised for far greater energy
intensities than experienced by solar panels facing a
star at much further distances than in a fusion power
plant. Using them in solar panels would not significantly
increase output but would drastically increase expense.
These photovoltaics will degrade over time and not
replacing ageing sections during annual maintenance
is the primary reason why older reactors fail. The
minimum recommended collection efficiency from
this layer is 99%, as less indicates a chance of failure
under normal operating conditions. The capture sphere
is solid-state and does not require attention from
engineers outside of maintenance.
Closed-cycle turbines generate electricity through
indirect thermal generation methods, boiling a working
fluid via core heat, running it through turbines, recooling the fluid and repeating the cycle indefinitely.
This is a common primary method in chemical and
fission power plants and a required secondary method
in fusion plants, serving to carry away the 0.2–1% of
waste heat from the conversion sphere and preventing
thermal degradation of the photovoltaics.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The total amount of electrical power generated by a
starship is not that high. For the three ships featured
in the Ship Walkthrough chapter, total electrical
power generation comes to about a few hundred
megawatts. Some non-engineers may wonder
why these numbers are so low when fusion could
theoretically output immense amounts of energy. The
reasons for that are threefold.
Firstly, there are technical limitations. It is possible to
set dampers to a lower power to harvest more energy.
This is rarely desirable as the reactor’s turbine coolers
will not be able to remove all waste heat, the capture
sphere will begin to degrade as it heats up and the
overall plant capacity will decrease. Higher sustained
plant outputs are achievable through more resistant
reaction chambers developed at higher TLs.
Secondly, good engineering respects economic
efficiency. Starships of these sizes need a few hundred
megawatts to use drives at 1G, jump, and maintain
life support. Unless they have a specific reason to
need more, they do not have more. For example, the
Animal’s occasional paramilitary uses need it to employ
the m-drive at full power while the j-drive prepares a
hasty exit. It carries environmentally sensitive cargo
that needs full life support constantly, so it needs
enough power to run these simultaneously. The
Empress Marava encounters such situations rarely if
at all, so it does not have enough power generation to
handle this scenario. Good engineering practices do
not add expensive capacity ‘just because’ and buyers
do not wish to pay for capability they do not need.
Finally, hundreds of megawatts is not a low quantity. A
landed Empress Marava can easily power thousands
of households, tens of thousands on a mid-TL world.
While lighting up a nation is out of the question, lighting
up a large town or small city is very doable.
Similar to how ‘resource units’ measure availability
of wealth and other factors, as opposed to only
measuring raw currency in Megacredits, it is common
to measure power on a ship by ‘power points’ that
factor in power availability and other elements, rather
than just measuring raw power in megawatts. Just
like how fortunes measured in resource units contain
Megacredits of wealth, a ship’s power points contain
many megawatts but there is no direct conversion. To
put it into numbers and say that X power points are
always Y megawatts is incorrect.

R

