POWER CELLS

Where power is generated, there is often a need to
store it. Starships are no exception. Whether for an
emergency backup or to handle surges in demand, no
shipboard power system would be complete without
banks of power cells. These come in a wide variety of
forms, starting with chemical storage at lower TLs, up
to dedicated ultracapacitor banks.
By raw capacity, most starship jump drives provide
the most energy storage of any system on the ship
when not charging up for jump entry. A jump drive must
store and quickly shunt a large amount of energy in
a very short period of time. This is done by banks of
ultracapacitors, typically zuchai crystals. Using this for
long-term energy storage places stress on the system,
with potential consequences up to and including
explosive release that destroys the ship, so it is
recommended to ‘borrow’ this storage capacity for less
than an hour at a time.
How much energy storage ships have varies. Some
have an upgraded capacitor bank allowing them to feed
in power over time, then discharge from the capacitor
bank into the jump drive at the moment of jump, rather
than relying on main power from the power plant. Other
designers, particularly of military ships, build a power
plant that can fully power manoeuvre and jump drive
as well as basic ship systems at the same time. This
might seem like overkill but does keep the ship from
being stranded by damage that degrades but does not
destroy the power plant.

So long as it avoids damage and extreme
environments, the lifespan of a fusion cell is limited by
two factors. First, the fuel tank is constructed to insulate
its contents as much as possible, only connected and
thus transmitting heat to the rest of the device through
the input/output valve that draws tiny amounts of fuel
to cool itself. This is why fusion cells cannot hold their
full capacity ‘on the shelf’ indefinitely; most will be
at over 90% after a few months of storage. Second,
ultracapacitors have a limited lifetime, being good for
millions of charge/discharge cycles, while a fusion cell
typically goes through thousands between refuelling.
Since refuelling is the only external maintenance
action performed, this leads to a perception that the
fuel cell fails after merely thousands of ‘recharges’.
Some models can regenerate ultracapacitors at the
cost of fuel, providing an indefinite lifespan, and most
of those automatically do so during refuelling if the cell
has fallen under 99% peak efficiency. There have been
reports of fusion cells left alone for over 100 years, their
fuel long since drained, retaining enough charge to run
another fusion cycle once refuelled.
After fusion cells, superconducting batteries are the
next most common type of energy cell. These are
brutally simple; electron currents go in and come
out via control circuitry in a manner analogous to
compressing and releasing gas, whilst indefinitely
circling a loop of superconductive material. These
materials can only store a limited charge before
the electric fields generated by the electrons racing
around alter their material properties and cause them
to develop resistance. That causes the remaining
electrons to transfer their energy into the material
as heat, causing more resistance until the entire
work melts down. This radiates heat to nearby
superconducting loops that likewise melt down and
turn their stored energy into heat, in a chain reaction
that is usually catastrophic for the ship and anyone
aboard. It is among an engineer’s many duties to keep
the stored energy within rated limits to stop a chain
reaction from happening.

Power Systems

The next most common type of energy cell is the fusion
cell, a miniature fusion reactor which is less efficient than
larger systems but far more portable. A typical fusion cell
consists of a vacuum flask for a fuel tank, a tiny fusion
chamber rarely more than a few centimetres across, and
an ultracapacitor bank. When the ultracapacitors are
mostly discharged, the chamber draws a small amount
of fuel and runs a brief fusion cycle initiated using the
remaining charge, resulting in a pulse of electricity
that the ultracapacitors soak up, the entire recharge
operation taking less than a second. The ultracapacitors
then mete out power to whatever is plugged into the
fusion cell until they are mostly discharged once more.
A fusion cell’s limited ability to accept power from other
systems makes it more refuellable than rechargeable,
although its ultracapacitors help smooth power spikes.
Maximum output is less than a proper fusion reactor,
however. Anything needing maximum output power
or more is better off running it from a vehicular or ship
power plant, despite countless attempts to jury rig a
solution from many fusion cells.

The use of small fusion cells dates to the original
Fusion+ design, where reactors large enough for
starships were scaled up cells or arrays of cells. Even
today, most large plants are simply arrays of cells,
rather than a single large unit. The biggest change is
the fuel as small cells used deuterium manufactured
by larger fusion plants, following the steps listed
before but stopping when deuterium was extracted.
The miniaturisation of nuclear dampers allowed
modern fusion cells to use liquid hydrogen, making
refuelling much simpler.

21

