Power Systems

T

22

At lower TLs where superconducting batteries are not
available, reversible electrolysis fuel cells are used
instead. Available from late TL8, these pass hydrogen
and oxygen through a membrane to extract water and
electrical power. The process can be reversed when
there is excess power available. Conversion efficiency
is high but not 100%, thus why superconducting
batteries are preferred at higher TLs. These designs
are usually sealed, closed-cycle devices where the
hydrogen, oxygen and water are stored in dedicated
tanks attached to the fuel cells, although some designs
share these three components with the ship’s general
supply. Fuel cells are less prone to sudden overheating
or explosion so long as the membranes and tanks do
not leak. When they do, it is recommended to discharge
the leaking cell as soon as possible. Electricity can be
stored elsewhere and leaking water is famously much
harder to ignite than leaking hydrogen and oxygen.

FUSION FUEL TANKS
Fuel tanks are one of the biggest systems in most
starships, requiring 10% of the ship’s volume per
parsec of range. The portion needed to run a typical
fusion power plant is a small fraction of that needed for
jumps but since both systems take liquid hydrogen, the
same fuel tank system is used. This affords the ship
much longer endurance between refuelling if it does not
maximise the use of its jump drive, although the ship
can risk becoming stranded if there is too little fuel left
to jump and no means of refuelling.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Given that they take so much volume and sometimes
spend long periods empty, designers developed a
variety of alternative fuel tanks, such as high-purity tanks
often found on starports. Some collapse to provide extra
cargo volume when not carrying fuel. Some are mounted
externally, carrying one jump’s worth of fuel and dropped
just as the jump field is forming.
Keeping fuel tanks in working order is vital to the
power systems of the ship. A leaking tank causes
problems, both from the spill and running out of fuel
sooner than expected. Ships have been rendered
dead in space from a relatively small fuel leak that no
one did anything about.
Many ship designers consider fuel storage filler space,
breaking it into areas spanning several decks in odd
shapes to fill volumes between the hull’s outer skin and
the often-boxy rooms and corridors of crew-accessible
space. This is especially true in streamlined ships, a
practice dating to pre-spaceflight aircraft, which often
store their fuel in their wings as those are too thin for
anyone to sensibly enter. Thus, most fuel tanks are
custom-designed for the layout of their ship and firmly
embedded as part of the hull.
Because of this, fuel tank maintenance involves
assembling patches from standard materials and parts
more than replacing entire tanks. There is normally one
or more service entrances per tank for a technician or
drone to access it. If a fuel tank must be entered while

R

