partially full, a temporary airlock is deployed around
the service entrance, then fuel tank compartments are
drained and filled one-by-one to allow the technician
or drone to move through them without being directly
exposed to the fuel. A completely full tank must be
partially drained first, such as by the leak that needs
repairing in the first place. Even hostile environment
vacc suits do not protect from the extreme cold
temperatures and high pressures of liquid hydrogen.
The tank compartments have cryogenic insulation
to keep the liquid hydrogen cool, commonly using
a simple double hull for vacuum insulation. This
cryogenic lining is covered in a self-sealing nonhydrogen-reactable coating that will react to stress
and close punctures automatically. When an area
needs replacement, first the exact area to be replaced
must be designated, typically by drawing a boundary
on a virtual model of the fuel tank. Using this model,
a piece of the exact shape and size required is
manufactured and then put into place after the old
section is cut away. A coating is applied to the seam
between the new piece and the surrounding fuel
tank, which is traditionally given one full day to bond
before being tested to make sure it will hold. While
higher TL materials can set faster, taking less than
a day is widely seen as endangering the ship by not
allowing the tank coating to fully bond, although it is
understandable during emergency repairs.

FUEL SCOOPING AND PROCESSING
Fuel scoops refer to systems that quickly mine the
environment around a ship for fuel. There are three
types of fuel scoops. Atmosphere-type scoops quickly
filter hydrogen from hydrogen-rich atmospheres such
as on most gas giants. Fluid- or water-type scoops filter
out water from a potentially mixed liquid, most often
sea water, then electrolyse hydrogen from it. Ice-type
carves chunks of ice out of comets, heating the ice to
its melting point then feeds melted water into the fluid-

Most ships that have fuel scoops have all three but
there are exceptions, so when posting to a new ship it
is good to confirm which it has. The speed of scooping
comes at the expense of impurities in the obtained
resource, meaning that fuel scoops obtain unrefined
fuel, which is problematic for jump drive use and, if
used over long periods, can present maintenance
headaches for fusion power plants and hydrogenusing reaction drives if not refined. Most ships with
fuel scoops have a fuel processor that removes these
impurities, turning unrefined fuel into refined fuel that
presents no such troubles.
Fuel processing uses much the same heating and
filtering processes described in Water Recirculation
on page 30, along with gravitic density sorting similar
to how a fusion power plant separates helium from
hydrogen. Even on large ships, it is common for the
same crew to maintain both fuel processors and water
treatment facilities, using such similar skills and tools
that the unwary can temporarily forget which system
they are tending.
Scooping fuel goes much faster than processing fuel
unless the fuel processor is far larger than it needs
to be. It is common to scoop fuel quickly and then
spend the entire trip to the jump location processing
it, possibly even longer. Even without scooping,
unrefined fuel is more widely available at ports than
refined fuel is, leading many to view fuel processors
as an investment.
It is technically possible to use atmosphere-type fuel
scoops to skim hydrogen from a star, at rates akin to
skimming from a gas giant. While this can be more
convenient than hunting down cometary ice – let alone
travelling to the Kuiper belt or Oort cloud – doing so
entails all the predictable hazards of travelling close to
a star, in particular requiring more heat and radiation
shielding than most ships possess and as such is
generally reserved for the desperate or foolhardy even
on ships equipped to survive the process. The result
should be considered unrefined fuel, although the usual
contaminants – mostly helium – are different from those
found in gas giant atmospheres.
Large ships may have scoops on subcraft rather than
scooping fuel themselves – taking advantage of the
square-cube law and allowing redundancy – but small
ships do their own scooping. Scooping fuel can be
one of the most challenging operations a pilot will
perform, which means that large ships may have a

Power Systems

Pipes carry liquid hydrogen into and out of the fuel
tanks. In addition to being insulated similarly to the
tanks, they incorporate gravitics to help push and pull
fuel. Articulated baffles inside the tanks further assist
flow, preventing sloshing and backwash. These baffles
can divide the tank into multiple compartments, helpful
when unrefined fuel is being refined, allowing a ship to
quickly scoop fuel from a world’s surface or gas giant’s
atmosphere and refine it one compartment at a time en
route to the jump limit. This internal division is useful
to limit leaks should the tanks be breached, similar to
compartmentalisation of the hull.

type processor. The melting is done inside a miniature
airlock to add pressure, as water ice sublimates to gas
if sufficiently heated in a vacuum.

23

