T

split between steady and reliable main pilots versus
hotshot subcraft pilots, while small ships have those
hotshots as their main pilots. While this stereotype
is far from universally true, it does contribute to the
lesser degree of service that small ships receive at
certain starports. Some small ships only ever go from
starport to starport, reserving their fuel scoops and
processors for an emergency.
Ironically, this is part of the reason why unrefined fuel
is more widely available at smaller ports – if almost all
ships will only buy unrefined fuel, there is little market for
a starport to run its own fuel purification. Still, having a
fuel refinery is one of the requirements to be declared a
Class A or B, and in some cases even Class C, starport.
Larger ports more often service ships that only go from
port to port and thus do without their own fuel processors
to have more cargo and/or passenger space.

Power Systems

While fuel scooping and processing is standard practice
for non-commercial ships, many traders or passenger
liners prefer to buy their fuel at a port instead. There
are three primary reasons for this, the first being time.
Although fuel scooped from natural sources is ‘free’,
it is a significant time investment; 2–4 hours to scoop
and 24 to process is typical, compared to the 1-2 hours
to refuel at a port. For most commercial ships, time
is money. Second, some systems do not allow fuel
scooping, out of environmental concern – particularly
with oceanic refuelling – or a desire to control their
revenue sources. Some systems seed CAPTOR
(CAPtive TORpedo) mines within their oceans and
gas giants to secure this restriction with lethal force.
Finally, wilderness fuel scooping can be dangerous.
Even without a port’s interference, dangers such as
turbulence from gas giants or local large fauna can kill
a ship as surely as a torpedo strike. Commercial ships
rarely see the risk as worth it compared to paying a few
thousand extra Credits at a port.

24

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

A final word to the wise: Always run purchased fuel
through the ship’s purifiers, unless desperately
short on time or lacking purifiers. If nothing else,
test the fuel prior to addition. While there are tank
sensors and filters available for feeding in unrefined
fuel, most fuel systems bypass this for any fuel the
crew tells it is refined, whether through controls or
feeding via a separate port marked ‘refined fuel’. This
allows significantly faster fuel throughout, but any
contaminants will go straight into the refined section
and remain undetectable until mixed, contaminating
tons of bad fuel before the crew can notice and reach
the external cut-off. This will clog up internal piping
and fuel intakes, crashing reactors, reaction drives and
jump drives until the tanks are fully cleaned, a process
that can take anywhere from hours to weeks.
There are anecdotes of starport crews across Charted
Space dealing with corsairs or pirates who demanded
fuel service by topping them up with a few tons of
cement, animal slurry, or human waste from the port’s
septic tanks. While these appear to be mostly fictional,
the fact remains that this is an efficient and cheap way
to immobilise a small ship with an inattentive crew while
disabling all non-battery-powered weaponry. It pays to
be polite to the staff at a backwater Class C port one
is obtaining ‘refined’ fuel from or, failing that, to check
their work before trusting it.
Ramscoops or plasma scoops are essentially
‘plasma-type’ fuel scoops designed to obtain fuel from
interplanetary and interstellar mediums. These require
the ship to travel through large volumes of space
to obtain significant fuel from the very thin material.
Plasma-type scoops also work well harvesting coronal
mass ejections, for those able to wait for them. These
scoops are most often encountered on spacecraft
intended to travel from star to star without jump drives.

R

