LIFE SUPPORT
Every spacecraft, even shuttles that only travel
between a world’s surface and orbit, must provide
certain minimum services to keep their crew and
passengers alive and functional. Should any of
these systems fail, the crew – and eventually the
ship – will diminish. Even entirely robotic ships must
make concessions to life support functions, such
as scrubbing dust, shielding against radiation, and
providing thermal regulation.

THE BASICS
The following systems are present on virtually all
spacecraft. Even robotic spacecraft not designed to carry
living beings have uses for most of these, in particular
radiation protection. Artificial gravity, as detailed in the
Gravitics chapter, is not technically part of the basics
as a lack of gravity is less immediately fatal than a lack
of air. Most spacecraft place internal artificial gravity
controls with general environmental controls.
Although some elements of life support can be
controlled by their occupants – with safeguards in
place to prevent involuntary manslaughter – much of
a ship’s life support will be under centralised control.
This is used to match a ship’s overall environment,
such as might be found in passageways or common
areas, to a given world. When travelling from one
world to another, as starships often do, the shipboard
environment may be slowly changed from the origin
world’s environment to the destination’s, giving time
for passengers to acclimatise.

OXYGEN AND VENTILATION
The most well-known hazard of space is a lack of
breathable air. Humans consume over half a kilolitre
of oxygen per day, which at typical concentrations
means going through about 11 kilolitres of air,
assuming a standard nitrogen/oxygen mix, per day. A
lack of oxygen will kill a typical adult human in about 7
minutes. These numbers are within a factor of 10 for
most other known sophonts. Thus, oxygen circulation is
of primary importance to life support.
Short-term air storage is not a major concern.
Starships are highly buffered through large open
spaces. It is theoretically possible for an Empress

Marava with standard atmosphere mix, a full standard
human crew, no passengers and an empty but
pressurised cargo hold to take off, go through a jump
and land with no functional air circulation. Attempting
to do so would showcase the reason why starships
have life support systems.
Given that six-person crew with no filtration and a
10-day transit from ground-to-ground, operating the
ship from the cargo bay and ignoring all other life
support needs for this example, oxygen content will
drop by 10 percent, equivalent to almost a kilometre
above sea level on a 1G surface gravity world with a
standard atmosphere. This is manageable. What is
less manageable is the carbon dioxide buildup. In short
order, the air will begin to become stale and the partial
pressure of CO2 will begin to rise.
Ordinarily, starship air has a carbon dioxide
concentration of less than a tenth of a percent. On
average, humans breathe out a kilogram of CO2 per
day, less if doing nothing but lying in a bunk sleeping.
That six-strong crew would generate 60 kilograms
of CO2, increasing its concentration to about five
percent. This will cause headaches, dizziness, impaired
judgement and possibly unconsciousness. It might go
unnoticed as it would slowly take effect over the 10
days, although it would be immediately noticeable to
anyone walking in from a room with fresh air. Should
the CO2 concentration rise to six percent, it would be
lethal. Without ventilation fans or other air circulation,
CO2 will pool at low points in the ship’s gravity, where
it can easily exceed six percent concentration and risk
killing anyone who walks in without holding their breath.
Those who find themselves in this situation are
advised to break out the vacc suits and oxygen
candles that are there precisely to keep this sort of
emergency from getting worse.
In the interest of delaying such an emergency, one
of the main things that a shipyard will check during
maintenance is the air filtration system. On some ships,
the number of dedicated sensors is higher on the
ventilation system than the jump drive. While standard
staterooms have the same equipment as the normal
ship-wide ventilation, many luxury staterooms have

25

