their own dedicated and improved ventilation system
to give the highest quality of air, optimised minute-byminute to the current activities of the occupants, such
as giving more oxygen during exercise.

may be subject to spaceport regulations such as being
unable to board passengers or not being permitted to
take off at all. Vacc suits and rescue balls do not count
as life support for this purpose.

Designers distribute redundant air storage and
treatment units across even small ships, in case one
malfunctions. One per airlock, stateroom, engineering
space, medical bay and bridge is standard, with some
passenger-focussed ships adding one per common
area. Ships with many rooms may share one unit per
group of staterooms or equivalents such as brigs and
barracks; one large air treatment unit for a block of
brigs is common, both for efficiency and because it
allows placement that does not require a maintenance
technician to enter a cell to service the unit.

More numerous than air filtration systems are the air
circulation systems, microgravitic units that ensure air
keeps flowing gently through vents. These are shortrange unfocused tractors, sometimes supplemented by
fans. Constant strong breezes would be an annoyance
to most sophonts but pockets of unbreathable carbon
dioxide floating around are invisible. Given the presence
of artificial gravity, most ships use circulation designs
that stem from pre-spaceflight mining technologies to
deal with ‘bad air’, though needing far less power per
volume served. More sophisticated ventilation, such
as in luxury staterooms, actively scans the air to find
and quickly remove unwanted contaminants. Some
captains request specialised air circulation systems to
be mounted behind the captain’s chair so they can look
impressive with a breeze blowing from behind, more
often triggered by a subordinate or program monitoring
the captain’s communications than by a button push or
other explicit action on the captain’s part. Exercise rooms
make more common use of this directional ventilation
capability, to cool the room’s users and remove odours.

While all ships store air as a backup, particularly as
part of airlock systems, most modern ships have what
amounts to highly refined algae to break carbon dioxide
into oxygen. As noted under Water Recirculation,
‘reserve’ oxygen is most often stored bound up into
water. So long as power and water are provided and
the algae kept safe, a ship can keep its crew breathing
indefinitely. Oxygen storage for immediate use is
primarily in high pressure tanks, with oxygen candles
as a backup. Any ship burning oxygen candles can
be considered to be using emergency supplies, as
it implies a crisis no matter how the captain may try
to spin the situation. Should this captain attempt to
operate their ship without functional life support, they

LIGHTS
Keeping the darkness of space away is vital to avoid
accidents. Areas the crew traverses daily can seem
very different when unlit. External windows only provide

Iradiance (W/m2/nm)
1.5

SYNSTARLIGHT SPECTRUM
TERRA VERSION

Life Support

1

0.5

0

250

500

750

1000

1250

1500

1750

2000

2250

2500

Wavelength (nm)

27

