T

light if pointed at a nearby star or large celestial object
positioned to reflect that star’s light. To provide a useful
amount of starlight, the ship must be no further away
from the star than its habitable zone and not in the
shadow of a celestial body.
Lighting systems are simple and robust enough
that, if there is power on the ship and the controls
are not sabotaged, any room aboard may have
light. Archaeologists have found that simple
lights are among the first electrical devices most
cultures harness with electricity before interstellar
contact. There have been countless approaches
to obtain more light from less power, and there
are a variety of options for replaceable units that
convert electricity to light such as light-emitting
diodes, heated filaments, bioluminescence, plasma
fluorescence and microfusion.

Life Support

Modern ships favour ‘synthstarlight’, indirect lighting that
replicates the spectrum of visible light as perceived on
a typical planetary surface. The dominant standard in
the Third Imperium is a cool, white light based on the
light of Zan Ki Ond, the star of Capital, diffused through
a blue sky, with non-visible components diminished or
eliminated – particularly ultraviolet. This is close enough
to the light of Sol as seen from the surface of Terra that
some Solomani claim that this is the actual standard.
Local environmental controls typically allow a range of
hues, replicating the same pseudo-starlight at different
times of day. Generally, the warmer colours of sunrise or
sunset are preferred for situations where a more relaxing
environment is called for, such as staterooms or crew
commons, whereas cooler colours are for spaces where
more focused work is performed, such as workshops or
a ship’s bridge. More advanced lighting systems may
replicate light from different stars as viewed from atypical
planetary surfaces, often as part of the weeklong
acclimatisation process most ships undergo.

28

Biospheres use a ‘grow light’ or come standard with
a filter that provides plants with a softer light that has
all components needed for photosynthesis. These
provide light for both shade and sun loving variations
of plants at the same time, without over or under
stimulating sensitive plants used to lower or higher
lighting conditions.
A resilient trend is to design lighting to make it difficult to
tell where the light is coming from. This allows the light to
be brighter than normal human tolerance levels to light
up more of the room but diffusely reflected by the walls,
so the crew does not look directly at the light source.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

If the power goes out and no external light gets in, the
inside of a starship is said to be the darkest place in the
galaxy. While that may be an overstatement, it highlights
the need for backup emergency lights. These lights
should be regularly tested. Although off most of the time,
they must keep the ship lit long enough for the duration
of an emergency. Typically dimmer than normal lighting
to conserve power, they often incorporate dedicated
rechargeable batteries. While full white light is better
during an emergency, some lower-budget ships tint
emergency lights red on the excuse that this reminds
everyone there is an emergency. Non-human ships use
other colours that the crew can all see well, such as
yellow on Vargr ships.

TEMPERATURE CONTROL

Space is an insulator. Aside from blackbody radiation,
a ship in vacuum will not lose heat the way a hot object
in an atmosphere or underwater might. However, a
ship in orbit around or at the same orbital distance as
a typical habitable world will absorb more heat from
the local star than it would if parked on the surface of
that world, under the protection of its atmosphere. Ship
systems will often malfunction outside of a broad range
of temperatures but the limiting factor is more often the
crew themselves, who have a far more limited working
temperature range. Given this reality, most systems are
built to function optimally within the crew-limited range.
Heating is rarely a problem so long as the power is
on. Many ship systems naturally generate heat as a
byproduct of operation. This includes the fusion power
plant, which is all about making materials extremely
hot, although the amount is small enough that this is
often not the primary generator. Supplementing this
are electric heating units distributed throughout the
crew-accessible portions of the ship. Central heating is
technically more efficient but sophonts typically demand
localised thermal management. This is a small enough
percentage of the total power budget that crew comfort
wins out in essentially all cases; even when a ship was
designed with central heating, this is typically retrofitted
within its first decade. On large ships, sometimes the
first warning sign that someone venturing through
accessways receives that they have left the portion
of the ship designed for crew comfort is that it gets
substantially hot or cold.
Cooling is more of an issue. Modern ships route
‘waste’ helium from the power plant into tubes running
throughout the ship at very low pressure, relative to
the fusion plant’s interior, to lower the temperature,
absorbing heat then venting it. Ships without fusion
power plants will often store and use some other
coolant, treating it as a form of fuel; a common choice

R

