Air & Fire
Suppressant

Heaters

Air

Power & Data
Conduits

Water &
Sewage
Fuel
Fuel

Coolant

Sonic
Dampening
Vacuum

is the same liquid hydrogen that powers jump drives
and fusion power plants, given how widely available
it is. This flow is adjustable on a per-room basis to
provide more or less cooling for individual tastes.
Technically this is per-wall, so rooms next to another
that is being super-cooled will experience chill from the
adjoining wall. Superior life support, such as for luxury
staterooms, may employ miniature double-hull style
arrangements, imposing a vacuum between rooms to
eliminate this effect – which can also help with sonic
isolation. Lesser life support systems have solid walls
except for any pipes, or employs a double wall without
maintaining a vacuum.

The air temperature aboard a ship is less of a comfort
concern than the crew’s temperature, which clothing
can affect; thick multilayer uniforms aboard a warm
ship can overheat the crew, while thin uniforms on a
ship running cold to reduce its infrared signature can
increase the likelihood of sickness. A ship may choose
to run cold in certain circumstances such as venting
heightened amounts of helium on the side opposite the

The Imperial Navy publishes uniform standards for
dressing humans and other sophonts into easy-to-use
guides, freely available to all, distilling thousands of
years of experience from before the Third Imperium. This
has the side effect that uniforms used by civilian crews
within the Third Imperium are often reminiscent of naval
uniforms. The publicly available guides have subtle
alterations from the standards the Navy uses to avoid
accidental replication so civilian uniforms remain only
‘reminiscent of’ and are not confused for naval uniforms.

RADIATION PROTECTION
Stars are radioactive. Any naturally evolved sophont
grew up in a radioactive environment. Sophonts with a
body that naturally uses trace amounts of potassium,
such as any human, are radioactive. These are tiny
amounts relative to what it takes to damage most
sophonts but measurable even at industrial prespaceflight Tech Levels.

Life Support

At lower TLs, particularly before the advent of practical
fusion power, this heat is often vented using large
radiator vanes extending from the hull, maximising
the surface area available to radiate heat. Typically
fragile and prone to degradation, they are nonetheless
required to prevent the ship’s interior from becoming
unliveable. Later advancements to materials science,
thermal control and power generation make these
protrusions unnecessary, although ships that run hot
still require the extra surface area.

enemy it is trying to hide from. A one-uniform-fits-all
policy may be detrimental to the crew due to individual
temperature preferences. This is one reason why most
non-military captains prefer to allow their crew to dress
as they like, within basic standards of decency. Others
employ uniforms that have layers and functionality to
customise to the individual’s specifications.

Planetary atmospheres and magnetospheres provide
substantial protection that is not available on spacecraft
and must be compensated for. As noted in Basic
Radiation Protection on page 9, low TL spacecraft

29

