T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

accomplish this using mass, while magnetic fields form
miniature magnetospheres on higher TL spacecraft.
Most modern spacecraft store anti-radiation pills for
crew and passengers in the event the spacecraft is
caught unprotected in a severe solar flare or other
major radiation source. Long-term care, capable of
being provided by any medical bay aboard a modern
spacecraft, can eventually reduce a sophont’s lifetime
accumulated radiation dose to essentially zero, although
other measures must be taken to reverse damage.
The practical effect of this is that radiation can be
ignored except in extreme circumstances, such as
being fired upon by weapons specifically designed to
inflict high doses of radiation or being outside a ship
when a solar flare strikes.

WATER RECIRCULATION
Water is rarely consumed utterly by any of its many uses
aboard ship, whether imbibed, employed in washing and
general hygiene, maintaining a comfortable humidity, or
putting out fires. Instead, it is transformed into another
state that can be reclaimed and treated once more to
become pure water. Thus, it is more correct to say that
a ship has a certain amount of water than that it uses
water at a rate optimally balanced by the reclamation
rate. While there is inevitably inefficiency and loss
over time, new water can be made from hydrogen
and oxygen, two things any modern spacecraft has
in significant quantities. This could in theory eliminate
water storage needs but it is often more convenient to
store spare oxygen as water, break off the oxygen as
needed and recycle water using techniques developed
for planetside municipal water systems.

Life Support

RADIATION

30

For all its hazards, radiation is one danger that
jumpspace is completely safe from. Jumpspace
emits zero radiation, so far as the Third
Imperium’s most sensitive detectors have been
able to measure.
By radiation, ship crews mean particle radiation,
such as alpha or beta. Electromagnetic radiation
is light, lasers and so on. Gravitational radiation
is gravity or ‘spacetime curvature’. Acoustic
radiation is sound. These other phenomena
have propagation properties similar to particle
radiation, which is why physics labels them as
other kinds of radiation but ship crews do not.

A basic water treatment unit relies primarily on filtration,
removing anything but water molecules and similarly
sized particles, using micromanipulators as part of
the filter screens to slide off accumulated junk to keep
the filters clear. This combines with magnetic traps to
pull out any particles with an electric charge, followed
by evaporation and condensation to remove particles
with significantly different thermal properties than
water. Gravitic manipulation is employed during the
condensation step to pull out anything with significantly
different density, as well as to encourage the water
to condense. One notable difference from typical
planetside treatment is that the filtration step is relied
upon to remove all biological material in the water,
eliminating the need for any further anti-biological
measures. The other steps are more to remove dirt
and dissolved salts, which means multiple redundant
layers of filtration, triple at a minimum, along with active
monitoring to alert if any of the layers malfunction. Even

R

