a single filtration layer will suffice temporarily but should
not be relied upon long term. Another difference is that
chemical disinfectants and coagulators are rarely used
since they become another form of consumable and
may have unfortunate interactions with sophonts the
system’s designers are not familiar with, not just nonhumans but humans of different ancestries.
Pure water is distributed throughout the ship. Where
additives are desired for specific uses, such as
additional minerals and vitamins, they are added at the
outlets for those uses rather than to the general supply.
As with temperature, humidity levels in a stateroom
are adjustable from controls in the stateroom. Luxury
staterooms and special environment areas have their
own mostly dedicated water supply and filtration,
although these always have backup links to the ship’s
main water supply, usually sealed but accessible in
case of malfunction or leaks. Water imported to or
exported from a dedicated supply is treated before
being introduced to the main supply.

WASTE PROCESSING

grade minerals, may sort the rubbish after heating,
using systems akin to asteroid mining ore equipment to
recover ore-grade minerals but smaller and processing
at slower rates. These minerals are thoroughly
sterilised, using further heat and ultraviolet light, before
being routed to systems that will use them.
Spacecraft that never visit jumpspace will dump waste
at port if they can store it until then, while those that
ride aboard starships will hook up to and use the
starship’s waste disposal system.
The amount of waste produced can be reduced through
optimal diet but only so much, especially for passengercarrying ships where the initial load and the prior day,
up to three days in extreme cases, depends on what
the passengers had before boarding. This diet must
be balanced for the individual, not just the species, as
there is no one optimal species-wide diet. It requires
access to optimal foods, generally requiring at minimum
a monthly resupply at a high population or agricultural
world if the ship is not equipped to make its own food.

Garbage, whether disposed of via receptacles in most
rooms of any ship or debris filtered out of the air or
water supply, has two main forms of treatment.

On ships that have them, biospheres often double as
an elaborate waste treatment unit.

Humans and similar size sophonts produce around
a sixth to a third of a cubic metre of refuse per day,
combining solid and liquid. Some staterooms allocate
half a displacement ton to waste storage, more than
sufficient to store waste from two sophonts for a portto-port trip, including travel time to and from the jump
limit as well as a maximum eight days in jump. Ships
thus equipped are designed to offload refuse while in
port, although if necessary they can dump it in space.
As noted in Jumpspace Travel on page 87, dumping
garbage during jump is widely considered a bad idea,
although a small percentage of ships do it anyway.

A common nightmare to deal with is fire aboard a
vehicle, since even the earliest wooden boats. Water
may work against a wood fire but it just splashes
around the oil in an oil fire and can likewise make an
electrical fire worse. These problems are made more
severe aboard a spacecraft by radiative heat. Inside a
planetary atmosphere, with no walls to contain it, heat
from fires radiates away. In a room, particularly a wellinsulated one as on most ships, heat is contained and
builds up, igniting more things that add yet more heat.
This can cause built-up heat to spill out through doors
and bulkheads, which can ignite objects in other rooms,
leading to the entire ship becoming a burned-out hulk.
Interior fires are not to be trifled with.
To suppress a fire, at least one of the three things that
feed it must be cut off: fuel, heat and oxygen. A competent
naval architect will limit flammable materials as much as
possible and implement safeguards for materials storage
and handling. When this fails, or when crews bring aboard
flammable materials regardless, suppression efforts fall
to the other two. Heat is complicated, as cooling systems
aboard spacecraft are optimised to dissipate heat output
from normal operations, not from an active fire. Dispersing
heat throughout the spacecraft can lower a fire’s intensity
but too much heat can cause ignition elsewhere aboard
ship. This means the preferred method of disposing of
fires on a ship is to remove oxygen.

Life Support

Most ships have a treatment unit instead. Waste is
routed to one of two central bins for redundancy and to
allow one to self-clean while the other remains in use.
Ships large enough to fully employ two bins will have
more than two. A bin heats the rubbish to bleed off
volatiles and reclaim water, which usually account for a
majority of the volume, then eject the remainder, either
in jump or at port. On a small ship this rarely accounts
for more than a quarter of a displacement ton for the
entire ship. Even on the volume and price budgets
of large ships, this system is typically accounted for
under staterooms, commons and bridge. Advanced
waste treatment facilities, more often found on ships
with biospheres or workshops capable of using ore-

FIRE SUPPRESSION

31

