T

Life Support

This is one of the few times in which being aboard
a spacecraft can make things simpler. Fires behave
differently in zero gravity. In the absence of forced-air
ventilation, fires use convection to obtain additional
oxygen to burn. Convection requires a thermal
differential where more-dense cool air sinks and
less-dense hot air rises within a gravity field, causing
fresh oxygen to feed into the flame. Turning off gravity
disrupts this cycle, reducing the amount of combustion.
This slows the spread significantly, buying time to start
putting the fire out.

32

However, venting rooms on fire to the exterior is rarely a
viable option. Safety interlocks on airlocks prevent both
doors from being open at the same time; while these
can be overridden, that takes time rarely available in
an emergency. This would only be useful for a fire that
happens to be near an airlock or where there is a chain
of ventable rooms from fire to airlock. Non-airlock-rated
doors alongside this chain may be damaged or blown
open. Venting into jumpspace is widely considered even
worse as jump fields are filled with thin hydrogen, with
which heated oxygen might react.
There exists a solution which attacks both heat and
oxygen – frozen carbon dioxide powder, known as ‘dry
ice’. It works well enough to quickly extinguish most
fires, after cutting off power if the fire may be electrical.
Dry ice powder, chilled from carbon dioxide obtained
from air treatment units, is stored near liquid hydrogen
fuel and piped to miniature turret-like projector systems
throughout the ship, which are often co-located with
internal security cameras. The volume contained in

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

ELECTRICAL FIRES

If the fire may be electrical, turn off the power
first. Not only does this shut off energy that may
be feeding the fire but sufficiently high voltages
can arc up a stream of carbon dioxide. If
electricity is flowing into where the fire is, turning
it off first may save your life.

pipes throughout the ship exceeds that of any separate
dry ice tankage to assist with on-the-spot availability.
Severe damage can disrupt this delivery system,
usually making the projectors inoperable, leaving
nothing to route the dry ice to.
The projectors can be set to fire automatically on any
heat source above a certain threshold or be manually
controlled with security interlocks from a nearby control
panel, the bridge, or engineering. When judging the
quantity of dry ice to dispense, the projectors first try
to chill the fire out of existence, then displace enough
oxygen to cut off the fire that way, then consider that
dry ice expands when heated into gaseous carbon
dioxide and direct contact is dangerous to most
sophonts. Some projectors are hooked up to the ship’s
water system as well, with dedicated fire recognition
software taking input from security cameras to
determine whether water or dry ice will work better.

R

