Most projectors will not attempt to hit a moving target
or anything they conclude may be a living being if
under automatic control. A manually controlled projector
will target anything its controller aims at, although is
rarely of any use in repelling boarders. Ships with an
infestation of vermin – when neither evacuating air
from the affected area nor fumigation is convenient –
sometimes set projectors to fire at tiny moving heat
sources as they are powerful enough to kill such
creatures, one section at a time if faced with swarms.
Any ship with pets aboard must be careful to set the
maximum target size well below the smallest pet’s size.
Some breeds of ship’s cats instinctively flush vermin
into open spaces, which are often synonymous with
projectors’ fields of fire, rather than directly engage
dangerous pests. They meow for attention if this does
not swiftly result in their prey’s demise.
As a backup, most ships carry detachable, manually
operated fire extinguishers that plug into and are
recharged from this same dry ice delivery system.
Some ships only have these in the more sensitive,
easy to access, centralised or emergency-prone
areas. On many small ships, the cargo hold fits all the
criteria. The extinguishers are kept full at all times, to
remain operational if damage knocks out the projectors
or delivery system. When present, their cradles are
typically on the wall below the projectors, so the
delivery system only needs to reach a bit further to
service both outputs. The locks on these cradles use
the same security system as the doors – see Physical
Security, starting on page 60 – usually set so any crew,
although only crew, can take them. There are also often
outlets in workshops, medical bays and galleys, as dry
ice blasting is useful in certain cleaning, sterilisation
and food preparation tasks.

The less said about ships that do not even carry fire
extinguishers, the better. The crew of such a ship
should remedy this at the next call to a port with
suitable extinguishers available to increase their odds
of surviving further voyages.

EMERGENCY RESCUE EQUIPMENT

While not necessary for everyday life, few ships
travel without emergency vacc suits and rescue balls,
typically stored in or near the airlocks. Emergency
vacc suits are, broadly speaking, vacc suits that have
sacrificed durability and protection against threats other
than vacuum in exchange for adaptability to different
body plans and ease of use. Accessed through an
opening in their back, the user steps into the suit which
then seals behind them. Typically, they supply four
person-hours of air. Rescue balls are far simpler, taking
the form of a ring with two handles attached. When
activated, a two-metre diameter bubble automatically
inflates away from the user, leaving an opening in the
ring for user access. Once inside, the user may close
the iris valve, sealing the internal environment. They
are designed for single occupancy but two people can
use one if pressed. This may be ill-advised, as rescue
bubbles only provide two person-hours of air.
Of the two, emergency vacc suits see less use as those
who routinely head out into vacuum tend to have their
own vacc suits and emergency vacc suits are not easily
used by sophonts that do not conform to the human
body plans. Emergency vacc suits are one of those
systems that are frequently put in place then ignored
for years, save for mandatory inspections to maintain
registration. These are mandatory precisely because
starport authorities know these are often the only
checks those vacc suits receive until needed, at which
point there will be no time for inspections.

Life Support

Many ships, out of concern for security or in an
attempt at frugality, do without automated fire
suppression and only carry fire extinguishers or
replace them with ceiling-mounted sprinklers that are
unable to target specific areas. In some cases they do
without a central dry ice manufacturing and delivery
system, relying instead on manual inspection and
recharge of fire extinguishers that inevitably does not
occur, too often leaving extinguishers useless. The
authors of this book do not recommend this practice
but acknowledge that it happens.

Containers of potentially hazardous freight should come
with attached instructions for common emergency
situations; including these is standard, as it helps the
ship protect the freight. There are exotic materials that
create corrosive gas when burning, do not extinguish
in the absence of air, or that standard shipboard fire
suppression cannot put out. Speculative cargo should
be inspected upon purchase or loading as standard
procedure. Among other uses, this can identify if it
is a hazardous material – whether or not the ship’s
purser thought that was what was being purchased –
for which there are likely publicly available handling
instructions. Cargo that seems especially dangerous
might best be stored in a sealed cargo hold kept in
vacuum for the duration of the trip. If cargo looks to be
so dangerous as to not be worth shipping, especially
if it is not exactly as promised in the shipping contract,
standard responses are refusing the contract or trying
to negotiate a bonus.

While it is second nature to many crew after years of
practice, putting on and properly sealing a vacc suit is
a skill that not everybody needs or will learn; thus the

33

