T

Life Support

need for rescue balls, simple self-sealing spheres that
automatically inflate and can bounce out an airlock.
Someone wanting to leave a ship in a hurry can simply
take one off the wall, put it around them, push the
button and be protected from vacuum, hopefully for
long enough to be rescued.

34

Both sets of rescue equipment come with transponders
that automatically activate when exposed to vacuum.
Once away from a ship, there is nothing to do but wait
for rescue. They are rarely made to last more than
a few hours, so only provide air, not water or food.
As such, they work for accidents in busy starlanes.
A heavily damaged ship coming out of jumpspace
100 planetary diameters from the destination should
attempt to steer on course and stay intact for as long as
possible before abandoning ship. However, if the ship
is disabled but not about to explode, it is often safer to
shelter inside the wreck.
Most ships store emergency gear to keep the
passengers and crew alive long enough for rescue
should the ship become inoperable far from civilisation,
such as from losing power in a gravity well and
crashing. These scenarios presume the ship will be
mostly intact, just unflyable and powered down, so with
no comms or life support. A common choice for small
ships is the vehicle emergency kit that is designed to
support six people stranded for two weeks, assuming
access to breathable air and fresh water. It consists of
six survival kits and a vehicle portion.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Each survival kit is a small backpack weighing
about three kilograms, containing food and water
purification for four days, a knife, canteen, firestarters,
flashlight, waterproof poncho that doubles as a
blanket, compass with a mirror, sleeping gear and a
small computer loaded with general purpose survival
information. These are commonly stored near each
crewmember’s duty station. Crew are encouraged to
customise their kits with more items and any personal
medications upon signing aboard, then seal it until
needed. Inspecting the contents and replacing expired
medications or equipment should be done annually.
The vehicle portion is closer to 60 kilograms and
contains an emergency beacon, 60 person-days
of food and water, medkit, three two-person tents,
hatchet, heavy-duty multitool, six-person inflatable
raft, disassembled survival rifle with 100 rounds
and air filtration gear that can be assembled into six
filter masks. There is a bit of spare room, into which
prepared or cautious crews add a survival still, rope,
binoculars and a second emergency beacon; crews
that trim emergency preparations to save Credits often
leave these out. This comes in a heavy case that can
be unfolded into a sled, although it is most often left
aboard ship, thus its name. The vehicle portion is
usually placed in a small locker attached to or next to
the pilot’s or captain’s seat.

R

