CALL FOR RESCUE
A starship with damaged or inoperable
communications has many options to signal
for rescue. The most important thing to
remember is that potential rescue ships have
fully operational communication systems, so an
emergency signal does not have to be powerful
to be heard. In descending order of practicality,
common options are:
1. Any active sensor. Turn it on, point it at the
mainworld and keep flicking it on and off.
Sending SOS or Signal GK works well but
even random flickers can be interpreted as a
sign of distress.
2. Weaponry. Yes, really. A defocused beam
laser makes a fine way of getting attention
at extreme range. Take care not to shoot
rescuers with a full-power beam when they
come within range.
3. Any portable comm system. Tape it up to a
viewport or throw it out of an airlock. Vacc
suits and rescue balls all have emergency
transceivers, many crewmembers will have
personal communicators and starship
emergency kits are supposed to have a
set of GK pucks, palm-sized orange disks
designed for this exact purpose.
4. A spark-gap radio. If the ship has no
communications devices or anything
onboard that can generate signal, create
a simple spark-gap signaller with a power
source, vacc tape, a piece of wire and nonconductive gloves. Tape one end of the wire
to the positive terminal. Touch the other
end to the negative terminal while wearing
gloves. This will generate a brief burst
of unmodulated radio waves. Repeat as
needed, ideally in front of a viewport so the
transmission escapes into space.

Food storage is vital to support life on a starship, almost
as much as air. While most staterooms have miniature
kitchens that have some storage space for food, the bulk
of storage will be in the cargo hold. The average sophont
eats around two kilograms of food per day. Most food
with packaging weighs approximately 1,000kg/m3. One
displacement ton, which is 13.5 cubic metres of food, is

Thus, the main concerns when buying food at starports
are quality, convenience and price. For a crew without
a competent steward or cook, pre-packaged meals are
more important than the finest of raw ingredients. A
purser should always make sure the food is good quality
and not expired, even if the price is low. Cheap, expired
meals risk the added cost of medical treatment before
the crew can go back to work and low-quality meals risk
crew morale, which is critical for ship operations.
While subsisting on pre-packaged foods is an option,
many crews prefer to prepare their own meals from
raw ingredients. Whether one descends from the
Vilani shugilii or not, personally preparing food for
crew bonding is one of those rich traditions going back
well before spaceflight.
However, the Vilani developed their shugilii for good
reason; on most worlds, even Vland, native life is
simply incompatible with the digestive systems of
sophonts whose ancestors hail from other worlds.
Special preparation techniques are needed to make
ingredients edible, mostly ways of breaking down or
denaturing proteins, identifying and reliably removing
toxins, and making the taste palatable. On modern
ships, these tricks form the essence of the galley.
Having or not having a galley places a sharp
distinction on the food portion of life support. Without
a proper galley, a ship is limited to food obtained from
civilisation of some sort, usually a starport, and is
vulnerable to accidents destroying or spoiling the food
stores. With a proper galley, a ship’s crew can forage
for ingredients on most life-bearing worlds. Paired with
wilderness refuelling, this extends the length of time a
ship can be away from port, although it must still carry
spare parts for maintenance.
For some, the most visible reminder that space is ever
at a premium aboard a ship is the galley. Where a
planetside kitchen might be wide and open, a galley
will stack ovens and cupboards and rarely have much
unused counter space. Even small galleys aboard ships
have an industrial, mass production feel. Having a single
washer/dryer unit for plates and cups as well as laundry
can strike some as unhygienic, despite all the studies
showing the results to be as clean as separate units.

Life Support

FOOD STORAGE AND PREPARATION

thus about 13,500 kilograms and will last the average
sophont 6,750 days. Ships typically store food for their
maximum expected occupancy for as long as they have
reactor fuel or more, often four weeks. A four-person
crew thus needs 112 person-days of food, less than 0.02
tons. Given the trivial storage requirement, buying and
storing long-shelf-life supplies as backups is common.

35

