T

Some ships do not have a kitchen, instead carrying
prepackaged meals and rarely stocking more than
four weeks of food at a time. These ships tend to
have longer stays in port, relying on services there to
do tasks such as laundry. This does afford more time
to do whatever the ship’s crew came to do, although
it requires a way to pay the mortgage that does not
rely on fast turnaround in port. Mercenary ships that
can count on non-hostile reception at most ports
sometimes work this way.

THE SAFARI SHIP
The Animal safari ship is specialised for storage of raw
food materials, dealing with aspects that most sophonts
never spend much thought on. Even if the owners
are more concerned with trophies or live animals than
procurement of meat and provisions, there are built-in
options to accommodate the latter.

Life Support

The Animal is not the only ship that performs this function.
The generic term is ‘safari ship’ and is common enough
that it gets its own subtype code. The safari ship is
presented in this book as an example of specialising
a ship class for an uncommon mission. Any average
educated sophont in the Third Imperium might guess that
a scout like the Suleiman would have probe drones and
good sensors or that a trader like the Empress Marava
would have extra cargo space but there are many less
obvious missions ship classes are designed for.

36

The Animal comes equipped with two separate multienvironment holding tanks that shine for their versatility.
They can turn into simple freezers for storage of bulk
amounts of perishable food but act as holding pens for
live animals. Meat gatherers keep the tanks at or near
freezing, so stored meat can make long journeys where
needed. Taxidermists and vets keep the tanks at a
more normal temperature, mostly for their own comfort
as they work, although vets must accommodate the
animals’ needs first.
Each tank floor has a built-in extendable metal table that
can raise an animal or its carcass to a desired height.
This allows the cutting of meat for storage, tanning of
hides for taxidermy and examining tranquillised animals
by a vet. The launch hangar has a similar table, for
animals that cannot fit through the ship’s internal iris
valves. When not in use, these tables retract flush
with the deck. The ceilings have a wide variety of eye
plates, tie rings and hooks to aid hunters if they wish to
string up meat for cleaning, cutting or storage, handy
for restraining live animals, hanging other equipment or
securing storage containers from the ceiling.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

In addition, many crews install tool cabinets just outside
the tanks, although each crew customises the tool
set for their own needs. A meat gathering group may
have large bone saws, knife racks, and meat grinders.
A taxidermist may have bins of fake teeth or eyeballs
along with tanning equipment. A vet working on live
animals may have tranquillisers and medicines.

SANITATION
Keeping a ship clean and liveable is one of those tasks
that many sophonts prefer not to deal with, automating
it as much as possible. Common criteria for what
jobs are best to automate, such as ‘difficult, dirty or
dangerous’ jobs, often bring to mind sanitation as the
primary example of ‘dirty’. The fact that one cannot
readily ‘air out’ an occupied structure in space adds
some wrinkles to how this is done on a ship.

PLUMBING
There are a number of pipes in any ship carrying fresh
water, sewage, liquid hydrogen fuel, gases and other
substances. Keeping these unblocked and not leaking
is important. On any but the most titanic of ships, piping
is never large enough for most adult sophonts to crawl
inside, so remote options to fix them are vital.
Pipes are built to not chemically interact with
whatever is inside them, thus low-TL steel that can
rust is not an option for water or sewage pipes.
Pressure sensors are distributed along all piping; an
unexpected drop or increase in pressure can be a
sign of a blockage or leak in the line. For example,
when trying to activate a fire suppression turret in an
emergency with limited time to conduct diagnostics, it
can be useful to immediately know whether the turret
is not firing because the pressure to its supply is off
or if there is another reason.
Most ships do not embed piping solidly within the hull
but instead leave empty space for a ‘pipe runner’, a
spider-like drone that can crawl along the outside of a
pipe looking for breaks or blockages. This tool can be
equipped with one of several tools to safely repair a
break. Equipped with ultrasonic sensors, a pipe runner
can detect blockages without opening the pipe and
use vibrations to break these up. Higher TL versions
instead use a densitometer and micropressors, which
are essentially tiny gravitic fingers. Should the blockage
stick tightly enough that the pipe runner cannot
dislodge it or if the leak is too large, the recommended
procedure is to temporarily shut off the flow then use a
welding tool to cut out and replace the faulty section.
Blockage-clearing implements are also used to clean

R

