the outside of pipes, where more direct cleaning
methods cannot reach. Some ships that employ
cleaning drone swarms rig these to carry out plumbing
maintenance rather than have separate pipe runners.
The plumbing tools can be larger than the individual
drones, so multiple drones team up to manoeuvre
and operate them. These swarms are programmed
to conduct pipe inspection and maintenance on their
own, especially when the ship’s computer alerts
them to a failure, taking one more set of tasks off the
crew’s hands. These ships still require pipe runner
accessways but by not having a separate type of
drone, there is one less thing that needs maintenance.

LAUNDRY AND DISHWASHING
There are three general approaches to washing clothes
and dishes. Some ships that frequently see port simply
store anything that needs washing and clean it in port.
Ships with luxury or multi-environment life support
areas may splurge on separate dedicated machines for
each area of the ship. A compromise is to have one or
more clothing and dish washers in the commons so the
crew can access them.

Some ships prioritise cleanliness and despite space
aboard a ship being at a premium, luxury and multienvironment life support may need their own washing
facilities to avoid contamination. It is rare for even a
luxury stateroom to have its own dedicated washing
machine unless it is the only one aboard. More common
is for there to be one machine for all luxury staterooms
and another, shared with the dishes, for the others.
Multi-environment spaces more often have their
own machine, although it is rarely used and often
sealed away. An Animal that only uses their multienvironment spaces for freezers or pens for oxygenbreathing or aquatic animals may not use a washing
machine, whereas an Animal that sets one up as a
properly humid stateroom for a Bwap may use one
frequently. Some see this as excessive while others
see it as necessary.

Life Support

While leaving empty space for a pipe runner can
seem inefficient, this is a time-tested practice in the
maintenance and emergency repair of spacecraft over
thousands of years, particularly when replacing broken
sections. The ‘inefficiency’ is most often minimised by
having several pipes surround a common pipe runner
track. The most often proposed alternative requires
pipe runners to travel inside pipes but this may be
impossible. For example, liquid hydrogen is notoriously
difficult to operate within and requires ways to bypass
shut off sections of plumbing when investigating leaks.

The main problem with the first method is that
storing used material requires space separate from
clean material. This is rarely formally allocated but
generally seen as inefficient if it goes beyond three
weeks’ worth. Also, not every port has a laundry
service, so it is recommended that ships that adopt
this approach have a minimum of 21 days of clothes
and dishes for all crew and passengers who will
stay for two jumps or more, and 10 days for any
passengers who will not stay for more than one
jump. Naturally, most captains prefer to leave it up
to each crew member to make sure they have this
much clothing but anyone that falls short becomes a
problem for everyone on board. Thus, this method is
not recommended for ships that typically do multiple
jumps per mission or do not want to spend additional
time docked or lack space for extra storage.

37

