T

The solution most small ship crews are familiar with
is the common washing/drying unit. Some ships have
one for dishes and one for clothing, while others have
dismountable racks, put in to wash dishes and removed
to wash clothes. As with showers, ultrasonics, steam
and hot water are the three most common methods
of cleaning. A ship will often use the same method for
washing machines as it will for showers if these are not
individually selectable. Most modern washing/drying
units will allow the crew to select from all three options,
although checking with the steward and rest of the
crew is advisable due to any conservation methods or
cleaning schedules.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Cleaning is done on a preset schedule but anyone can
report a dirty area to the ship’s computer, which will
alert an available swarm. The swarms are programmed
to avoid areas where crew are active, which can lead
to always-crewed areas getting less cleaning; some
captains look forward to jump as an excuse to leave
the bridge uncrewed briefly and let it be cleaned. While
swarms are programmed to avoid any large moving
object such as a sophont, a pet or even a larger robot,
this can be overridden. Having a swarm crawl all
over oneself takes some getting used to but can give
efficient cleaning while remaining dressed. Sweat is just
one liquid they can dispose of, which can be particularly
useful for not having to fully remove a vacc suit during
a long work period. While taking a break in an airlock

CLEANING

Life Support

A ship in space can be considered a mobile house,
with all the usual cleaning needs. Tools and supplies
for this are typically stored either in the ship’s locker or,
where there is no ship’s locker, the cargo hold. Brooms,
towels and vacuum cleaners can suffice for regular
cleaning maintenance and are the favoured method
on many ships, particularly those that only engage in
annual maintenance. These leave thorough cleansing,
especially of usually-inaccessible areas, to be part of
an annual task, trusting that not too much bacteria,
mould, dirt and sediment will build up. Cleaning takes
time to perform and is usually assigned to otherwiseidle crew, particularly while in jump. When a ship does
not perform annual maintenance, it may become a task
for the entire crew, requiring advanced tools to clean all
the hard-to-reach areas.

38

Other ships automate the task, whether out of efficiency
on large ships or because a small crew might simply
have no members who can tolerate doing it. While
janitor robots are familiar from fiction, a more common
solution is swarms of tiny robots like those employed in
certain washing machines. Most of these robots have
an array of tiny brushes and manipulators with which
they remove particles of dirt and dust, buff out small
dents and scratches on hard surfaces and mend tears
in fabric. A few specialised models spray customised
detergent to treat and remove stains or bring empty
dispensers to suck up liquids for disposal. All robots
have visual and thermal sensors, with dispenser
models having basic chemical ‘sniffers’. These robots
venture forth from central hives, which supply power,
tools and detergents, as well as basic maintenance.
On large ships these hives are distributed throughout
the ship. On small ships, the single hive is usually in
engineering or, if there is one such as on Suleimans
that use this method, the workshop for ease of
fabricating replacement parts or bots.

MEDICAL CAUTION

Even if you are not the ship’s medic, it is a good
idea for every member of the crew to know the
location and contents of the ship’s emergency
medical supplies. If your ship does not have
adequate medical supplies, be sure to let the
captain know at once so that plans can be made
to acquire them at the next opportunity.
It helps to be familiar with the medical symptoms
of failing ship systems, such as a migraine
potentially signalling poor oxygen levels. In most
cases, these serve as flags to check with the
ship’s computer to see if that failure might be
happening. This is no replacement for sound
medical advice, as it is quite common for the
untrained to misdiagnose themselves. However,
when ship system failures happen, detecting
them early means more time to prevent them
from killing the crew.
If you see someone helpless on the floor or
floating in front of you, call it into the bridge and
determine the cause before attempting to help.
Grav shears from malfunctioning grav plates,
high pressure jets of gas from a leaking pipe and
other causes invisible to the unassisted eye may
still be present. There are three main reasons
to stop first aid; when someone more qualified
can take over, when you have run out of aid you
can provide, or if you are at risk of becoming a
casualty. Do not walk into an unknown danger
and become another victim.

R

