to recharge the air tank, one can simply pop the helmet
and let the swarm in to do its work. Some marines
employ this practice while recharging battle dress so
they can remain suited up in dangerous conditions.

MEDICAL NEEDS

While not all ships have a fully stocked medical bay, all
ships must be able to provide basic medical attention
to crew and passengers. Some try to stock only the
bare minimum of a first aid kit, but this is only sufficient
for those lucky enough to not run afoul of radiation
sickness, oxygen deprivation or any hazards of space,
let alone medical conditions unique to certain worlds.
When accidents happen on a starship it is often days or
weeks away from any other source of treatment. Thus,
a well-stocked starship will have compact medical
equipment aboard. At a minimum, enough medikits
for the total count of crew and passengers, and basic,
freely available medical software for any console to call
up so the crew can return to work quickly.
Handheld infrared and chemical scanners loaded with
diagnostic software, laser scalpels with adjustable
beam sizes and self-sterilising bandages treated to
speed up dermal regeneration are the most well-known
components of TL10 medikits. TL12 versions include
portable microtractor emitters to manipulate bones and
internal organs without breaking the skin. Unfortunately,
due to the wide range of manufacturers the exact tools
and supplies vary, so two brands side-by-side on the
same shelf, let alone from starports on different worlds,
are rarely identical even if they are the same TL.

LOW BERTHS

The other two types of ship take on low berth
passengers. The more infamous type skimps on as
much as they can, including the quality of medical help.
This type of ship made the ‘low lottery’ popular, where
passengers bet on how many people will survive the
passage. Any passage on which there is a significant
chance of dying is one generally only undertaken in
desperate circumstances. Few are that eager to see
the stars, especially knowing they will likely never
again see anyone or anything they leave behind. Such
desperate passengers are rarely in the best of health or
circumstances, further lowering their odds of survival.
Then there are the types that do it right, with autodocs to
revive anyone at the first sign of system shock, trained
medical staff and good software assistance. Survival
rates are much higher on these ships. Expenses are
too and they can only charge the same rates to stay
competitive. When ships with autodocs are known to
operate the desired routes, the riskier types tend to lose
business, with reputable ships not only stealing existing
passengers but finding more willing to brave this form of
travel. This causes other dishonest middlemen to appear
selling low berth tickets to reputable ships only to switch
them to risky ships offering low berths on the same route
for a cut of the profits. Fraud of this sort contributes
significantly to the low number of reliable transports,
which contributes to the entire class being labelled risky,
in a vicious circle of feedback.
Some ships without proper low berths, whether or not
they have emergency berths, offer to let passengers
take small doses of fast drug to skip most of the trip,
spending the approach to and week of jump in a few
subjective hours in passive activities such as a nap,
reading, listening to and/or watching media slowed
down to their perceived rate of time. Given the variable
time spent in jump, passengers taking this option
frequently wake up with several hours left until the

Life Support

The exact hardware of low berths varies. Some are
advanced versions of cryonic booths, whilst others
employ advanced versions of fast drug, giving better
time dilation than the 60-fold increase of ordinary fast
drug. Some use sophisticated anaesthetics that last for
a week but make subjects less conscious than in sleep,
placing them in a vulnerable state. All forms of low
berths suspend the user’s animation for the duration of
the journey. Most suspend or drastically slow ageing
as well and are ideal for extremely long journeys.
Regardless of the means used, a passenger enters
the low berth, has a temporary sensation, then ideally
wakes up at the far end of the trip. In all cases, low
berths are internally padded and come with diagnostic
equipment to make the trip safer, as someone who
will not wake up from earthquake-grade vibration is
vulnerable to injury in ways that those who have never
been in low berths rarely consider, particularly since
their flesh can be solid and brittle in this state.

There are three types of ships that employ low berths.
One type only has them as emergency backup in case
of an accident, so if something happens to a crew or
passenger that cannot be readily fixed on the spot,
the affected person can ride in a low berth until the
ship gets back to port. These ships do not use their
low berths for routine commerce. Ships that do not
even have a full medikit on board sometimes use this
approach to appear sufficiently medically responsible to
pass inspection. It works often, although for small ships
it is recommended that a full medikit and minimum of
two crewmembers with basic medical training, in case
one of them needs treatment. In addition to superior
on-the-spot response capability, a medikit takes less
tonnage and power than a low berth.

39

