T

Life Support

ship reaches port, which is often complained about.
However, there is a much-reduced risk of medical
complications. This type of passage is commonly
regarded as a subtype of basic passage, in particular
regarding acceptable standard rates and the lack of
expected steward service.

40

When considering travelling via low berth, it is
advisable to check if the ship is equipped with
autodocs, a fully trained medical staff and other
lifesaving equipment needed to ensure survival. With
few exceptions, passengers have the right to inspect
a ship prior to booking any level of passage, either in
person, through the ship’s security cameras or via a
travel agent. Many passengers are unaware of this.
If this is not feasible, it may be wiser to save up the
money for standard passenger tickets. It is strongly
suggested to avoid travelling on ships with a ‘low
lottery’ in place. Even disregarding the condition the low
berths must be in to make it popular, it is tradition that,
should the winner of the lottery be among the dead,
the captain wins the pot, which generates incentive
to reduce passengers’ life expectancy further. Those
who run a ship with a low berth system that takes on
passengers should be transparent about the medical
equipment and staff available.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

COUNSELLING
The crew and passengers of a ship in space have
only each other to talk to and are confined to the ship
for several days. No known sophont species evolved
in such circumstances and few individual sophonts
grow up in them. This can be psychologically stressful,
especially to those who have not yet travelled much.
Providing counselling is the traditional response,
whether from a ship’s steward or from artificial
intelligence. Derived from TL7–8 efforts to make the
first AIs capable of holding conversations, commonly
termed ‘chatbots’, AI counsellors are available at TL9
and often included for free in a ship’s basic software.
Small ships, often lacking a dedicated counsellor to
support the crew’s psychological needs, generally rely
on the many programs in any basic library to help the
crew. Often, the biggest hurdle in treating psychological
needs is getting those in need to use the programs
despite them being free, available to all crew privately
and can be done at any time. Many are not aware the
programs are available or believe that they can wait
until the next starport to seek face-to-face counselling.
These programs pull from a diverse set of topics and
psychological conditions. One TL12 example that

R

