obtained good and consistent marketing, ‘The Doctor
is In’, allows the patient to sit in a virtual environment
such as a doctor’s office or field of flowers to talk to an
attentive and caring individual about the issues they are
facing. While it does not replace a certified psychologist
for advanced issues and many prefer a sophont
counsellor to a computer, these can help with some
issues arising from long journeys across the stars.

STATEROOM EQUIVALENTS
Further crew support options are detailed in the
Amenities chapter. Although it is not recommended,
most sophonts can survive sleeping in a cargo hold if
a ship has no staterooms available. Additionally, some
amenities place further stress on life support systems.
The most common measure of ship occupancy is the
stateroom equivalent. While proper form is to rate
a ship by the maximum number of sophonts it can
support indefinitely if properly supplied, many ships
instead count the number of stateroom equivalents.
One ordinary stateroom counts as a stateroom but
so does one cell of a brig, a couple of barracks beds
and other rooms that support one or two sophonts.
Maximum long-term occupancy is understood to
be twice the stateroom equivalent count, with the
implication that supplies are sufficient to handle this.

Special environment life support systems are
segregated from primary life support as much as
possible to avoid cross-contamination. Some higherend luxury life support systems are likewise segregated
for the same reason. A luxury passenger might have
the air in their stateroom optimised for their body and
state at any given time, such as one mix for sleeping
and another for work. However, this leaves them open
to life support tampering. There have been events
where the alarms were disabled and a noble’s personal
quarters were sealed off, then the oxygen concentration
was slowly lowered to fatal levels while the noble slept.
Some passengers insist on their own air systems all the
same, prioritising luxury over safety.
Some ships offer alternatives to staterooms, such as
brigs or barracks. These can be functionally viewed
as special types of staterooms for most purposes,
in particular life support. Brigs are staterooms with
fewer amenities but more security, often including a
security station overseeing groups of brigs if there
are enough of them. Barracks are low-amenity highdensity staterooms only suited for those who will
put up with cramped conditions, such as soldiers or
basic passengers. Suites are groups of staterooms,
sometimes including a small common area.
Some cultures have stateroom-like areas that house
no one, the most famous example being shrines
on traditional Aslan Hierate ships, although ships
belonging to particularly religious spacefarers often use
the same approach, such as the personal temple-ship
of a travelling priest. Rooms such as this are usually
built as standard staterooms with the furniture replaced,
so a typical shrine has its own air purification unit, albeit
one that does not increase the number of sophonts
the ship can support. These are specifically tuned to
regulate incense fumes, mostly to make sure the scent
does not spill out into the rest of the ship.

Life Support

Stateroom equivalents in the Third Imperium are
measured with respect to humans or sophonts with
similar life support needs. Prospective ship owners and
crew who are or represent non-humans or significantly
divergent humans need to be aware of any important
life support differences. Being stuck on a starship that
lacks compatible food or provides insufficient oxygen
recirculation can be a matter of life or death. K’Kree
are a famous example of special psychological needs
as most require vast open areas and react violently
when brought aboard a typical spacecraft, with
exceptions being enough of a political embarrassment
to the steppelords that they are sometimes hunted
down. Human passengers should take precautions
when booking passage on starships designed for
non-humans. Being stuck in a vacc suit when no one
else aboard needs one is psychologically stressful
and potentially hazardous, as most vacc suits are not
designed to sustain an occupant during a weeklong
jump without pause.

Luxurious life support, used to cater to high passengers,
can result in higher life support costs. This does not reflect
a higher maximum occupancy but instead a more refined
grade of support (see High and Luxury Components on
page 110). Replacement parts such as filters being built
to a higher standard are more expensive, although they
rarely require more labour to maintain.

41

