ARGO AND

C DOCKING SYSTEMS
Airlocks, hangars and docking bays exist to transfer
items to and from a ship. In most cases, a ship would
be useless without some way for sophonts and cargo to
board and disembark.

DOCKING OPTIONS

Docking is the first step to transferring cargo and
passengers to another ship or starport. There are three
general means of travel between ships, including from
a ship to a port or vice versa.

OUTSIDE
Origin and destination may not be in contact at all. They
may be floating next to one another in space or parked
at a downport. One exits the origin ship, crosses the
intervening distance, then enters the destination ship.
If the intervening space is hazardous, such as vacuum
or a volume into which hostile fire is being directed,
protection is advised. This includes most boarding
actions, where entry into the destination ship can be
difficult, particularly if the target ship does not wish to
be boarded. At the other end of the spectrum is simply
walking into a ship on the ground through an open
cargo hatch or ramp.
Unlike the other two options, this does not allow one
ship to move another ship without tractor beams or other
indirect means, so they are not considered ‘docked’.

DOCKING TUBE
The most common form of this is a pressurised tube
connecting the two ships, large enough that items or
crew can pass between them in a controlled space.
When not in use, this tube can retract into the hull
around the airlock, extending only when needed.
Traversing between ships is much easier in this
contained area, greatly lowering the risk of floating off
into space and other hazards. Since almost all ships
have standard airlock sizes, connecting tubes have
little difficulty mating to other ships’ airlocks.
This technically includes cases where one ship is
attached to another like a limpet to grant armoured
protection to passage between the ships. It also
includes docking clamps, which often incorporate tubes

42

and nets for hauling otherwise unattached cargo. Nets
are especially useful for tenders that carry non-jump
spacecraft from star-to-star and other ships that carry
large, irregularly shaped cargo.
Care must be taken when engaging reaction,
manoeuvre or jump drives while docked with another
object, as the combined mass and volume will be
propelled by the drive, lowering overall performance.
Reaction and manoeuvre drives can suffer from a
misaligned thrust axis, causing unwanted attitude
changes. This is a more critical issue for jump drives
since attempting to propel more than the drive is rated
for tends to result in either no jump or misjumps. Nets
intended for this contain jump emitters, extending the
jump field to include the net and everything within.

INSIDE
The destination is inside the origin or vice versa. There
is no intervening space to cross, just a single opening,
be it an airlock’s outer door, cargo hatch, hull breach or
something else.
While less flexible than nets or external clamps in
terms of the size of ship or cargo that can be taken,
this arrangement is simple enough that it is far more
common, with no effect on manoeuvre or jump drives
as those are rated based on external volume rather
than mass. It has the advantage of being able to take
cargo up or down through an atmosphere without risk
of damage, which is not possible with most external
docking solutions.

AIRLOCKS

Entering a starship usually requires going through an
airlock. The concept stems from low-TL locks that move
floating vessels between bodies of water at different
elevations, pumping water in or out while enclosed
around a vessel to allow it to float in at one level, wait
for the change, then float out at the other. Airlocks are
much the same, except transiting between areas of
different pressure and/or atmospheric composition.
This is typically accomplished by pumping air into and
out of the airlock’s internal volume, which can lead
to a notable weak point – a high-pressure air tank

