behind the vents. It is under more pressure while the
airlock is depressurised but can cause an explosion at
any pressure if penetrated. Fortunately, the pressure
containment vessel acts like armour, so even if an
errant slug strikes, most small arms fire is unable to
penetrate it. Deliberately using an armour-penetrating
projectile to rupture this vessel and cause an explosion
in an airlock on one’s way out of a ship can backfire.

equipment such as rescue balls and emergency
vacc suits will always be found within the airlock. To
prevent unauthorised access and limit environmental
wear on personal vacc suits, they are kept in sealed
lockers when not in use, usually assigned one per
crew member and secured by keypad or biometrics to
prevent fumbling with physical access tokens in the
event of an emergency.

Although early airlocks could take almost an hour to
complete a full cycle, airlocks of TL9 and above can
cycle in a minute or less. This time is reduced further
by there being no need to acclimate to pressure
differentials. Modern vacc suits can comfortably operate
at a range of internal pressures, typically matching
the environment that the user has just emerged from,
eliminating the risk of decompression sickness.

In addition to regulating pressure, airlocks can
decontaminate an object before it is allowed on the
ship. This is great for worlds that have known viruses,
pollen and other irritants that can be harmful to the crew
if brought aboard. The scanners in these areas are so
precise that they can track microscopic parasites and
bacteria. They routinely disinfect open wounds, as a tiny
scratch could lead to a deadly infection if not treated
before coming aboard. The airlock uses lasers, water and
other detergents as needed to remove these and other
hazardous substances before they can multiply in the
confines of the ship and make the crew sick. Stewards or
other crew who like to keep a clean ship find the dust and
debris filtering extremely helpful, especially when paired
with less hygienic crewmates or passengers.

Airlocks are typically situated at or near the outer
hull, preferably close to the ground. On many small
ships they are at a minimum distance to the bridge
to facilitate rapid boarding and take off. As a result,
although most airlocks are a simple horizontal corridor
with hatches on either end, some integrate access
points above or below their main chamber. The same
systems used for interdeck access can be applied,
with an emphasis on resealing behind the user. For lift
platforms this is trivial but stairs and ladders can both
be complicated. Airlocks on a ship’s bottom or lower
sides may hinge the floor or a wall, forming a boarding
ramp or staircase when open. Ladders are less
common for this but can help reach a horizontal airlock
hatch that is well above the ground.

Vacc suits are stored close to airlocks for
expediency’s sake, typically either within the airlock
or in lockers directly outside. The latter is common
among exploration ships, who may wish to perform
maintenance on their vacc suits while the airlock is
in use or aboard ships with more than one external
airlock leading to a common foyer. This setup allows
more room for the crew to don their suits and prevents
the airlock from becoming any larger than it needs
to be. However, it will take up more tonnage and
may limit access to the crew’s preferred suits should
the area depressurise. In either case, emergency

This decontamination process only affects the outer
vacc suit or similar protection. Entering with a vacc
suit on may lead to parasites and pathogens getting
aboard if they ride inside the vacc suit. Some medical
professionals insist that crew take off their vacc suits
or disrobe when coming back from missions with a
known pathogen exposure risk; this becomes standard
procedure if routinely exploring unknown environments.
Cargo airlocks and docking spaces do this too but
simple cargo bay doors or ramps do not usually come
with decontamination equipment, so crews on ships
with these must stay vigilant when visiting areas with
tainted atmospheres.

SUBCRAFT DOCKS

Subcraft are more common on larger ships, many of
which stay in orbit and rely on them to make trips to a
world’s surface. Small ships more often land directly

Cargo & Docking Systems

Completely internal airlocks exist as well. These are
typically used to access subcraft or cargo bays, which
may become depressurised over the course of their
normal operation. Adding an airlock allows the crew to
always access these areas, where they would normally
need to repressurise the entire bay to permit access.
Certain laboratories or other areas with potentially
hazardous atmospheres include airlocks for safety.

It is a mark of one new to space travel to be surprised
by the sometimes noisy and aromatic decontamination
process when passing through an airlock. Lower
TL scanners often have cues that indicate when an
inhabitant is being scanned, either through the whirring
of a camera’s actuator or the light of a laser scanner.
Most advanced models do away with this but some
keep it intentionally. Projectors line the walls in several
rows from floor to ceiling, hissing as they release the
liquid or gases needed for decontamination.

43

