T

on worlds. Nonetheless, subcraft are of use on some
small ships too, including the three examples in this
book. All three ships feature an air/raft, while the
Animal has a launch which traditionally comes with its
own vehicle, an ATV.
The reasons to carry subcraft vary with the range of
missions a ship is expected to carry out. Common
reasons include:
● Beyond-starport access. Many worlds limit
starships’ access of their atmospheres to downports
and the airspace immediately around them, or do
not allow starships closer than orbit, regardless of
ship size. Subcraft are usually allowed, subject to
licensing and traffic control restrictions.
● Wilderness travel. Laws aside, a starship
cannot just land anywhere. Put down in a large,
sticky patch of mud and a ship may need more
than lifters to take back off. Most subcraft are
more capable, as they can fit into narrow areas
and stir up less mess when travelling beyond a
world’s starport.
● Limiting risk. The cost of a subcraft is a small
fraction of the smallest starship and they are far
more widely available. It is thus far easier and
cheaper to replace lost or stolen subcraft. Further, if
a subcraft is damaged and a crew needs to make a
hasty exit from a world, it can park aboard its ship,
with repairs waiting until the ship is safely away.

Cargo & Docking Systems

These reasons have applications specific to ships’
missions. For instance, wilderness travel has
applications for the survey missions a Suleiman might

44

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

conduct. For an Animal, the ATV can approach many
animals that would flee if a starship came near. Being
able to transport goods to and from potentially remote
locations is sometimes required for an Empress
Marava’s crew to receive the best deals.
Docking spaces and full hangars are not the same.
Docking spaces are roughly conformal to specific
subcraft with barely enough room to dock and squeeze
around, either enclosing the vehicle or offering a
dedicated airlock. Full hangars always enclose
the vehicle and offer enough room for repairs and
maintenance. Ships with only docking spaces usually
maintain their subcraft while at port or landed on a world.
There are many configurations for a docking space,
including extending docking clamps from inside to
pull the vehicle into the ship. Many bottom-loading
docking spaces use these instead of requiring the pilot
to hover the craft inside the docking area until the bay
doors close so the vehicle can land on the doors or
rest in the clamps’ grip.
Drone hangars are little more than large airlocks that
the drones are stored in. When not mid-launch or
recovery, crew can walk in and service or program
the drones, although care should be taken before
opening the outer hatch to prevent any unwanted
spacings. Drones may refuel liquid hydrogen stores
from the ship’s fuel tank, so the hangar typically has
one or two hoses for this purpose. Tools and parts to
service drones are brought in as needed rather than
being stored in the hangar, as this would risk losing
them in a decompression event and these tools are

R

