often useful in other applications. As with any docking
space, it is possible to use drone hangars as backup
airlocks in an emergency.

ESCAPE PODS

Most craft do not carry dedicated escape pods, as
they tend to place crew who were safe in orbit into
dangerous situations. The main exception is for military
or paramilitary ships which might draw a swarm of
incoming missiles, giving enough time to eject before
they hit. Most other causes of imminent ship destruction
either do not give enough warning to eject, present
a situation such as a crash landing where staying
inside the ship is more survivable, or are caused by
something inside the ship that can be ejected such
as an explosive or poison gas. Re-entry capsules
are more useful for rapid insertion into dangerous
situations, such as for an assault or rescue ship.
Subcraft can be used as escape pods on ships
if present. An air/raft is among the most common
subcraft; while it has an open cockpit and is
underpowered by the terms of space vehicles, it is
perfectly adequate for limited space manoeuvres
followed by a suited or rescue-balled descent to
ground. Subcraft should never be used this way unless
the parent ship is a hulled wreck that has been fully
looted of anything that could sustain life or is on an
intercept course with a planet or other massive object.
Even in the latter case, first consider whether the
subcraft’s drive could nudge its parent ship into a stable
orbit or a course that will miss the object.

FITTING LARGE CARGO

Less common is the Tonner, like a One Cube but three
metres by two and a quarter metres by two metres,
taking up a full displacement ton. These are sized to fit

Beyond that is the ‘4 (Interstellar)’ series, which come
in a range of sizes. These containers are expected
to be moved by cargo cranes, forklifts or other
external measures and thus rarely contain their own
lifters, although some have grav carts permanently
installed. They require even larger openings than
Tonners, usually only found on large cargo freighters.
A small ship capable of ferrying one 4A container
can often find emergency freight jobs at Class A or
B starports. It is understood that the ship may try
to use its remaining cargo volume for other freight
or speculative trade, which is tolerated so long as
the ship takes off for its destination within a day and
does not make any side trips until the container is
delivered. This is substantially more expensive than
ordinary freight and used when the cargo cannot wait
for a ship to happen to be making the run. The cost of
this scales with the ship’s size so these contracts are
rarely given to ships greater than 200–400 tons.
Type codes designate a given container’s form and
purpose, and follow a simple format. The first digit
represents what form a container takes: a standard
box with a hinged door at one end, an open frame, or
a simple pallet. The second gives an indication as to
function: whether it has environmental controls, if it has
grav plates installed to protect fragile cargo, et cetera.
Some of the more common examples are listed here.
As with ship mission codes, the second digit depends
on the first for its meaning and specialist containers
that do not fit neatly into these categories sometimes
use multiple ‘function’ digits to clarify their purpose.
For instance, ‘5’ usually means ‘sealed’ but ‘55’ is the
opposite of sealed.
Containers vary in price by size, type and TL, from
barely Cr50 for a simple 4F00/5 portable steel box up to
roughly MCr0.5 for a 4A92/F that might act as a noble’s
stateroom. Between the metallurgy and precision
required, even the simplest of these containers are
rarely made to lower than TL5 standards.

Cargo & Docking Systems

Many cargoes come in standardised containers for
ease of handling. Nearly all starship captains are
familiar with the standard One Cubes, a one-metre
cube with tiny spherical wheels set at the bottom and
indents along the top to allow these to lie flush against
one another. One of the sides swings open to provide
access. These are sized to pass through standard
iris valves and commonly found on all sizes of trader
ships. Like all standardised cargo container types
described in this section, cubes with environmental
controls or other power needs have internal batteries
with 24 hours of charge, designed to wirelessly
recharge from common starship or starport chargers,
passing charge from one container to another.

through cargo doors and only ships with cargo airlocks
or other large entrances can bring them aboard. This
is a rare feature among 100-to-200 ton ships, other
than dedicated trader ships. Many take the presence
or absence of this feature as the defining element
determining whether a vessel counts as a ‘trader ship’.
Fortunately, with good packing, 14 One Cubes can
often carry the same volume of cargo as a Tonner.
The Tonner’s slight advantage in space efficiency only
matters if it can be brought aboard to begin with.

45

