T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

4X Cargo Container Types

Cargo & Docking Systems

Type
Code

46

Name

Details

00

General Purpose The standard cargo container configuration. A simple box, typically corrugated, with a
hinged door at one end. Not necessarily airtight.

05

Sealed

08

Solid Breakdown Like type 00 but with no door. Typically constructed around some uniform substance,
such as metal ingots, broken down on delivery. The broken-down boxes take up
roughly one quarter the tonnage of their assembled states.

24

Damped Tunnel

A corrugated metal box, with hinged doors on two opposing ends. This configuration
mounts grav plates in three perpendicular sides or more of the container to act as
inertial compensators. This often stores fragile or volatile cargo. This container is not
necessarily airtight.

25

Sealed Damped
Tunnel

A type 24 that is vacuum rated, preventing contamination of the cargo.

29

Airlock Tunnel

A tunnel configuration – two doors on opposing ends – with both doors replaced
with simple airlocks. These exist for the sake of easy transport for colonial assets,
assembling facilities on-site from standard-sized components.

30

Powered Box

A box with one door which has starship-grade power feeds. Often used to ship things
that need continual power, such as specialised life support.

32

Controlled
Environment

Same as type 05 but has environmental controls, capable of maintaining any
temperature between -35o and 50oC. Often used to refrigerate fruits and vegetables.

47

Powered Side
Door

This configuration includes the power feeds of type 56 in a vacuum-rated container,
with a folding door mounted on one side. This configuration is sometimes utilised by
Q-ships, disguising weapon mounts as externally mounted cargo containers.

50

Open Top

Type 00 with no door and the top panel removed. Used for grain or other
particulate cargoes. Some use it as an ad-hoc animal pen if they cannot afford a
more secure solution.

55

Open Frame

An open box frame with structural cross members. Typically used as frames or
scaffolding.

56

Powered Open
Frame

This is a type 55 with extensive power feeds that are capable of conducting starshipscale power loads. This configuration often houses a fusion reactor or heavy
equipment.

70

Tank

An open frame with a cylindrical tank used to transport fluids and gases. Not rated for
greater than one atmosphere of pressure.

72

Reefer Tank

Type 70 with environmental controls that can maintain a temperature range outside of
-35o and 50o C.

75

Sealed Tank

An open frame with a cylindrical tank that can handle much higher pressures than the
more common type 70.

90

Habitat

A stateroom, office or other liveable space in a box. Type 90 bears little to no
environmental controls or life support of its own and rarely contains freshers.

92

Controlled
Habitat

With dedicated environmental controls, full life support and vacuum rating, type 92 is
often configured as a full-fledged stateroom if sized 4C or, if 4B or 4A, one of higher
quality commensurate with the space provided. This configuration can handle a
temperature range of -35o and 50oC and has standardised waste disposal and water
hookups alongside its power feed.

Same as type 00 but airtight when closed. Will protect against loss of air to vacuum.
Has no other life support or environmental controls.

R

