4X Cargo Container Sizes
Size Code

Dimensions in Metres

Displacement Tons

4F (One Cube)

1x1x1

Approximately 0.074

4E (Tonner)

3 x 2.25 x 2

1

4D (Triple Three)

3x3x3

2

4C (Double Triple Three)

3x3x6

4

4B (Triple Triple Three)

3x3x9

6

4A (Quad Triple Three)

3 x 3 x 12

8

LINES, LINERS AND TRADE ROUTES
When referring to starships engaged in merchant
work, a ‘line’ is a long-lasting trade route with known
characteristics and predictable demand. This demand
might fluctuate over the course of years but are steady
overall. Not all lines are inherently profitable and new
colonisation efforts or long-term disaster relief can
require consistent supply lines without much potential
for profit. These use the same ships and operations
but pay for them differently. Many local governments
will subsidise these lines to ensure adequate service to
worlds that require consistent commerce to thrive.
A ‘liner’ is a ship class built to service lines, which are
sometimes our main audience’s chief competition but
they cannot be everywhere. Small ships, particularly
small trader ships like the Empress Marava, can
succeed by filling in the gaps. A reliable line going
unserved by liners can be a small ship crew’s ticket
to retirement or to becoming merchant princes if the
situation lasts long enough and the ship is able to
adequately serve it.

However, not everything will ship neatly in prearranged
schedules. Brokers are versed in calculating the likely
prices of these cargoes at nearby worlds based on the
origin and destination, as well as other factors, such

as whether a world is a subsector or sector capital.
Buying, transporting and selling these cargoes at a profit
is known as ‘speculative trading’ and is the primary
designated mission of countless small trading ships.
Disrupting this trade disrupts the Third Imperium’s
economic and political power, with secondary but
potentially dire consequences for its military power if left
unchecked, so the most severe disruptions are often
treated with the same urgency as war.
A line-like service that is sometimes available to small
ships is mail cargo, consisting of data banks or small
physical goods. While any ship planning a certain jump
with cargo room to spare can ask if there is mail to
take along, ships are more often selected if they have
connections, such as prior naval or scout service and/or
nobility among the crew. The main limiter is that the ship
must have enough room to take all the mail ready in one
go. Mail cargo should not be confused with x-mail, the
higher priority mail carried by the x-boat network.

LIVE CARGO

After making sure there is adequate life support,
the first step in dealing with live cargo is to load the
animals aboard and make sure they can fit through the

Cargo & Docking Systems

A common mistake by many crew new to small trading
ships is to see the list of cargo, freight and passenger
opportunities available to their ship and mistake those
for all that exist at that port. This is rarely the case at
any but the smallest, least busy ports. Larger cargoes
are not offered to small ships except in extreme
circumstances. These are usually routine freight
or passengers that have booked well in advance.
Obtaining logs of cargo and passenger volumes offered
to larger ships is difficult, as small ship crews rarely
have a need to know and most larger ships are owned
by organisations that keep this information private
to avoid tipping off their competition. However, trade
route maps showing the general volume of commerce
between any two worlds near each other across a
subsector or larger region are available.

TYPES OF LINE

Lines are broken into five categories by size:
major, main, intermediate, feeder and minor.
Most directly link worlds only one or two parsecs
apart, due to the higher cost and rarity of
commercial ships that can jump three parsecs or
more without refuelling. Between this and the fact
that most Imperial worlds are not high population
or otherwise major sources of goods, the largest
trade routes only serve about a tenth of the Third
Imperium and often consist of isolated pockets.

47

