T

narrowest access door on the way to the cargo hold.
Certain tame animals may be led aboard via ropes
and halters. However, even the most domesticated of
animals prefer their freedom and may rebel as their
basic survival instincts tell them not to go in the dark
metal hole that reverberates with every footstep.
Some ships mount larger cargo hatches specifically
to allow passage of larger animals or larger sophonts.
Conversely, animals small enough to squeeze into
vents or pipes should stay in enclosed cages for the
duration of the trip, particularly on ships that have a
free roaming ship’s cat or other pet, more often for
the health and safety of the pet than to protect the
cargo. When boarding live animals, particularly if
boarding many of the same species at once, make

Cargo & Docking Systems

One example on a safari ship highlighted this
problem. The ship’s owner took a side job to haul
10 prime breeding cattle to another system. The
first problem he encountered was that he did not
set up any gates or pens near the external airlock,
so the cows ran freely around the ship until his
crew finally asked some local ranchers for help,
who loaned them temporary barricades. Once
these were set up, the cattle’s only choices were
to charge through waving and shouting sophonts,
scale the barricades, or climb aboard the ship.

48

Once aboard, the cattle charged down the open
hallway. Only two of them took the turn to the
cargo hold and the multi-environment holding
tanks. The other eight charged past and would not
turn around or let the crew past. The scared cattle
packed in the hallway impeded access to the
staterooms and trophy lounge.
The ship’s owner, thinking to outsmart the cattle
and move around in front of them, used the trophy
lounge to get around the cattle jam. Unfortunately,
a huge male and several fully grown females
were pressed against the door. Once the owner
opened it, they burst into the trophy lounge. After
trampling the man, they started jumping and head
butting the stuffed animal trophies, not to mention
excreting waste on the furniture and rugs. The
room’s contents, including trophies that had taken
decades to collect, were destroyed and the ship’s
owner barely escaped with his life.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

sure all doors and non-pathed hallways are closed or
barricaded so they can only proceed in the direction
intended before they come aboard. This may require
temporary doors, cages, walls and crew to drive the
animals where they need to be.

SHORT TERM
When keeping a live animal caged during a very short
transport, a few hours at most, certain standards may
be overlooked with little to no harm. Most animals can
do without food or water for a few hours. The amount
of waste that will build up in that time is minimal and
can be cleaned out after arrival. The impact on oxygen
reserves over such a short trip is minimal. However,
temperature and the animals’ general welfare must
be closely monitored, with quick options to counteract
natural instincts the animals may have to flee, break
loose from their bondage or climb pen walls to escape.
One technique employed for thousands of years in
moving top-heavy animals such as Terran cattle,
horses, goats and sheep is to pack the pen to standing
room only. This method works for short distance travel
and allows the animals to lean on each other instead
of falling over. The animals will need more cooling than
normal to compensate for the extra heat.
To lower the odds that some animals will trample
others, either give them enough room in the pen for
a few stragglers to lay down comfortably or make
multiple pens with only a few animals per pen. It is
better for only one or two animals to accidentally step
on a downed animal than for 10 to pile up on one in a
corner. The best option is to tie the animal’s head so
they cannot turn around and let them have a stable
to themselves, just long and wide enough for them.
Systems with moderate to high technology worlds
which see a lot of interplanetary livestock transport
often have rentable or purchasable self-configuring
pens for this purpose.
Animals being transported may show signs of stress
such as wide eyes and a tendency to flee or back away
from handlers. In many animals, signs of overheating
involve heavy breathing or sweating, while being too
cold results in shivering and shaking. Fortunately,
most ships’ environmental controls are easily adjusted
to provide comfort, so long as care is taken to see
whether warmth or cooling is needed.

LONG TERM

Jumps from star to star take more than a few hours and
some in-system trips take longer, too. There are two
general options for long term transport.

R

