The first is low berths. Non-sophonts are routinely
given less detailed care than sophonts and if a bull
destined for breeding then slaughter gains amnesia
about his life before the low berth, rarely does
anyone involved notice. Low-quality mass berths that
resemble stables are the typical solution. Some live
cargo hauling contracts include portable low berth
stables, to allow the use of ships that have open
cargo space but not dedicated livestock support
equipment, although the ship must either supply
power for the low berths or the contract will include a
portable power plant and fuel.

For live animals not in stasis, feedstock, bedding
and waste handling are vital but allocating suitable
space for the pens must be done before the animals
are loaded. Animals require space to move around
during transport. Making the pen’s length and width
– including feed bins, water troughs, bedding, and
other supplies – 150% of the longest dimension of
the animal is typically sufficient for one animal. This
rule of thumb allows animals to turn around and find a
comfortable spot in the pen to lie down.

FEEDSTOCK STORAGE

Even animals in low berths may be sent with feedstock,
as most low berths slow but do not completely stop
perceived time. Unlike a sophont who knows what is
going on and may choose to nap away the time, an
animal will be hungry and seek to eat. Awake animals are
drawn to edible objects, meaning all feedstocks must be
stored away from the pens so the animals cannot reach it
all at once. While most animals are not smart enough to
open locks or find ways into securely closed feed barrels,
some are adapted to obtaining hard to reach food. For
instance, ancestors of Terran goats climbed mountains
for the freshest twigs and grass, so climbing an outwardleaning barricade is only a slight challenge.
Some believe this is unnecessary and throw all the feed
in the pen with the animals. Most animals do not have
a sense of being full and will either overeat until they
are sick or waste the rest of the meal to keep others
from being able to eat it, even if no others are present.
This is visible with grass-fed animals which, if given
an entire bale of hay, may eat some then lay down or
defecate on the rest, refusing to eat the wasted part,
and starve. Feeding animals no more than a day’s
worth at a time is recommended.

Cargo & Docking Systems

Not all animals are compatible with low berths. Some
simply will not survive or have physiologies that low
berths do not affect, while others change essential
qualities. Many Aslan claim to be able to taste whether
an animal was in a low berth recently. Breeding,
endangered and high value animals are often not put
into stasis unless facilities are of a high enough quality
to guarantee they will reawaken without complication.

For instance, a typical Terran cow that is a metre
wide and two metres long can comfortably rest in
a square pen that is three metres by three metres,
although it is common to put two cows into a pen of
that size. Giving a pen this large to just one cow is
analogous to providing a luxury stateroom and usually
sees commensurate upgrades to the facilities. This is
sometimes done for prized or show animals.

49

