T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

NON-ANIMAL LIVE CARGO
As with self-configuring pens, moderate to high
technology worlds that ship many animals will usually
have automated feedstock dispensers for sale or rent that
can handle these challenges. They can be programmed
to the same degree of sophistication as a ship’s door
access controls and are usually able to distinguish
individual animals even when the crew cannot, preventing
one animal from being dispensed another’s food.

BEDDING
As any crew that bumped their arm or bruised their feet
on a metal wall or floor can attest, flesh next to metal is
not comfortable and can lead to injury. This is the same
for animals, even ones with enough fur or hide to count
as armour. An animal will not be comfortable lying on a
cold metal floor, especially if it is uneven, or may hurt
themselves slipping and falling. Metal surfaces textured
for traction reduce slippage but will be harder to lie on,
which is why some kind of bedding is recommended in
cargo bays with metal floors.

Cargo & Docking Systems

Bedding can be created from a variety of composites.
First, it must not be harmful to the animal, as it will
probably attempt to eat its bedding at some point.
Second, it must be soft for the animal to lie or stand
on. A grass or hay solution is common as it is soft and
most animals either eat grass or find it not poisonous.
However, this is not always available. There are
composite beddings using ground-up polymer, wood
or other soft, non-toxic material. Inorganic solutions
are preferred as they are compatible with creatures
from most worlds. Some ships use dirt dug up on the
animal’s homeworld, giving good traction and making
the floor softer and more adaptable.

50

WASTE HANDLING
Animals are not usually trained to use freshers and
the bigger they are, the more waste will be generated
during transportation. If the trip requires multiple jumps
before the animal is unloaded, automatic cleaning and
waste handling facilities are highly recommended. The
waste handling must take into consideration the type
of bedding that was used as it may require changing
during the trip. Most waste can be washed away with
pressurised water into the ship’s recycling facilities
but some may require manual removal. Some may
think that regular waste removal is unnecessary but it
maintains the value of animals by keeping them clean
and healthy. A buildup of waste can cause problems.

Live plants are typically shipped in environmentally
controlled containers that regulate heat, water, soil
and atmospheric conditions, containing any pollen or
other emissions from the plants or products used to
keep them alive. Some containers require occasional
opening for specialised feeding and watering during a
jump. It is prudent to add a ‘maintenance’ charge, have
the customer provide the food and obtain the feeding
and watering instructions if asked to ship freight with
this added requirement.
Passengers, whether in low berths or in staterooms,
are not ‘live cargo’ and should never be referred to
as such, even if they fit some definitions of the term.
Neither does the term apply to crew who perform little
to no function once away from port; for those, see
Brokers and Other Supercargo on page 122.

CARGO HANDLING OPTIONS

Any ship that often handles cargo can benefit from
special cargo handling upgrades to make the crew’s job
easier. Especially with smaller ships, these tools can
optimise cargo handling, so the crew does not have
to rely on starport stevedores to load or unload cargo.
Many crews find other, creative uses for the cargo
handling devices covered here such as joyriding through
a cargo bay, which happens despite being officially
disapproved of by most captains and ship owners.
A crane mounted to the ceiling of a cargo hold can
stack cargo neatly, maximising storage space.
However, the crane is not the smoothest movement
for lifting volatile cargo, which is best moved on a
grav cart to stabilise its ride aboard the ship. A loading
belt makes loading and unloading easier, especially
if extended throughout the floor of a cargo bay to its
innermost corners. While some spaceports have a
mobile version available for unloading, most crew
dislike waiting around and insist on taking care of
it themselves, sometimes causing issues such as
strained muscles or crushed crew members.
Cargo ramps or airlocks can further assist in moving
cargo by providing superior access, at the cost of
creating another ship entrance to secure against
boarding parties and the increased maintenance
these demand. The Empress Marava’s dedicated
cargo airlocks help its trading missions, so few owners
remove these side airlocks to leave only the rear cargo
hatch. Animal-class ships used primarily for hunting
megafauna are often refitted with cargo doors and
more airlocks to streamline loading live animals into

R

