SLAVE CARGO
Slavery is illegal in the Third Imperium. Some say
the primary reason is moral, as slavery involves
denying the basic rights of sophonts. Others say it
is practical because tolerating slavery undermines
the free trade that is the lifeblood of the Third
Imperium. Regardless, it is a practice that has
persisted despite the Ministry of Justice’s efforts, as
assisted by the Imperial Army and Navy.
If you are recruited to crew a slaver ship, it is best to
escape to port or another ship as soon as possible.
Otherwise, you are likely to be made a slave over
time. If you have escaped slavery in the Third
Imperium, notify law enforcement as soon as possible,
especially since this lowers the chances that your
former would-be masters will attempt to reclaim you.
It is rarely possible to notify law enforcement before
escaping, so focus on getting to safety first.

Those who point to the few well-known lasting
examples should acknowledge that every such
case has backing from a substantial military or
some other means of preventing forces such as
the Imperial Navy from demolishing the operation.
System-level support, such as Oghma taking slaves
and using military assets to defend slavers, appears
to be the minimum necessary within a sector at the
Third Imperium’s borders. Even with such support,
operations only last until someone powerful takes
enough of an objection to it, as is beginning to
happen to the Glorious Empire at the hands of the
Aslan Hierate and Camoranian Starfighters.

When at port, do everything possible to separate
yourself from your captor, preferably by way of
starport personnel. A common method is to hide
metal objects or anything that could be mistaken
for a weapon on your person. This may trip weapon
scanners and cause starport personnel to speak
with you. Report your situation to them, which will
likely result in a search of your captor’s ship and
your freedom. If anyone else offers to escape with
you, particularly any who were taken with you and
thus more likely to trust you, accept their help. Do
not overly concern yourself with encouraging other
slaves to escape as many will not want to as a
result of the slavers’ conditioning – and if you can
successfully alert starport personnel, they will be
freed soon enough.

Cargo & Docking Systems

If you or those who listen to you are considering
becoming slavers, an honest examination of the facts
should make it abundantly clear how bad a decision
that would be. Slavers are chased by bounty
hunters for considerable payouts by the friends and
family of those they sought to enslave and Imperial
authorities authorised to execute without trial. Any
tramp traders or pirate groups that appear interested
are more likely to try to cash in on the bounty. Most
independent ports turn slavers away out of fear of
reprisal. What few worlds allow buying or selling
slaves are soon discovered by Imperial authorities
and their governments overthrown. Without support
from a substantial polity, new slavers are hunted
at every stop, struggle to make ends meet and
justify their actions to themselves, and eventually
fall to retribution from those they try to buy and sell.
Slavers do not last in the Third Imperium.

If you are taken as a slave, you will eventually be
offloaded to a buyer or a larger ship, as maintaining
control of slaves requires enough slaves to set against
each other. This is your best chance at escape but
slavers know this and will do everything they can to
keep you within arm’s reach. If the handoff is made
in obscure territory, possibly on an uninhabited world,
there is little chance of a successful escape. Failing
that, many slavers rely on a perception of legitimacy
to ply their trade and as such will pass through
starports. This is your moment.

51

