T

the multi-environment holding tanks. Some Animals
remove the launch to be able to load megafauna onto
the ship for holding or processing. If expecting to haul
cargo, make sure the ship has simple loading and
unloading access routes.

MANUAL CARGO HANDLING
Some cargo is packaged in small and light enough
containers that a sophont can easily carry it. Some
captains only deal in such cargo, refusing upgrades
that would lighten the chore of loading and unloading.
Preferring manual handling is rare but there is some
cargo that needs a hands-on approach due to value,
security, or general lack of enough bulk to call for
automated approaches.
Lowering the gravity can make it easier to move items,
although keep in mind the difference between weight
and mass – if an object is slow to start moving, it will
be just as slow to stop. Using grav carts to isolate
weightlessness to individual items, limiting the potential
for chaos, is often a better approach.

Cargo & Docking Systems

GRAV CARTS

52

Little more than a floating flat bed, grav carts, often
referred to as g/carts, are one of the most common
tools seen in cargo handling. They capitalise on lifter
technology, expanded on in the Gravitics chapter, to
lighten the workload of a stevedore or loadmaster.
Despite their ubiquity, most people rarely think about
them until they are not available. When cargo needs
moving, ‘where’s the g/cart?’ is a common question,
asked in anticipation of strained muscles or worse if
heavy cargo is moved without assistance. Many crews
that haul cargo soon learn to grab g/carts before trying
to move anything more than a One Cube.
G/carts consist of a lifter array on the underside and
a grav plate on top. The former is used to manoeuvre
the g/cart and provide clearance from the deck,
the latter to better secure any cargo against rough
handling. Although the lifter array could in theory
traverse almost any height, practical use typically
limits them to a maximum of half a metre above
the ground. The main reason is safety – a cargo
crane that suffers a power failure can lock in place,
preventing any damage to carried cargo, while a grav
cart can only fall, damaging the cargo and crushing
whatever is beneath.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

G/carts are as varied as they are useful. They can
be sized for anything from a One Cube to a 4A,
occasionally permanently attached to the container.
Well-designed g/carts utilise a series of micropressors
to lift a container before slipping underneath, keeping
the force even to prevent twisting.
Control interfaces vary, the most common being
a slight extension that allows an operator room to
stand, along with a set of manual controls. This is
more crew-intensive but allows for finer control.
Alternatively, they can rely on remote operation,
either from a user’s portable controller or a
ship’s computer. This allows for larger and more
complicated cargo movement procedures to be
undertaken by just one stevedore but presents a
vulnerability that clever thieves can exploit. That
is not to say it is easy to hack a grav cart. Some
manufacturers take great pains to add as much security
as they can, ranging from a given g/cart being limited
to one controller with both password and biometric
protection for the sake of three-factor authentication, to
restricting grav cart communications to tightbeam.
G/carts come in a variety of styles beyond the simple
cargo-moving carts and medical-use g/tretchers. Some
luggage and small boxes have g/cart components
built into their bottom, with either a control panel
somewhere on its surface or a separate handheld
device. Self-guiding styles can be programmed to go
between sections of a ship to carry things for the crew,
which can be useful aboard larger ships to transport
reports, medicines, food and other items. When
moving over grated metal decking such as catwalks,
g/carts occasionally have issues of momentary
imbalance due to the grating not giving a smooth,
consistent surface to press against; many self-guiding
g/carts take such areas slowly.
There are operational concerns with grav carts,
particularly inertia. Although the cargoes it carries will
become weightless, they will not become massless.
In keeping with the Second Law of Motion, particularly
massive containers that may take some time to
accelerate up to speed will take just as much time
to slow back down. Grav carts are thus severely
limited in their top speed for safety reasons, although
impatient crews can override them. This is the most
important way in which g/carts are distinguished from
microtractors and micropressors, which are handheld
devices that do not have significant velocity or inertia
independent of their operators.

R

