THE COMPUTER
A ship’s computer is its brain. Many of the tasks a
starship performs would not be possible without a
computer, most notably jumping to other star systems.
Even tasks that can be done without a ship’s computer
are typically quicker and more convenient with its help.
It is so vital to ship operations that a ship’s computer is
distributed throughout the hull. The ship’s computer can
easily be one of the most expensive components of a
ship, especially since it does not take much time at a
starport to upgrade the hardware and almost no time to
upgrade the software, making it a common money sink
for ship owners with lots of cash but not much patience.
Each major system in a ship has its own computer,
possibly multiple if the system is distributed and/or large
enough, acting as secondary nodes to the ship’s main
computer. Certain large ships take advantage of this,
upgrading secondary nodes to take some of the load
off primary central processing units. This is possible but
rarely done for small ships, as the result is typically in
excess of what most small ships can make use of. Many
small ships take the opposite approach, using virtual
machines and firewalls to run virtual secondary nodes,
which individually need little processing power to run a
small ship’s system, on the same physical hardware.

PRIMARY AND SECONDARY NODES
A ship’s computer can be divided into primary and
secondary nodes, the latter more numerous than the
former even on small craft. Primary nodes handle
ship-wide functions such as directly controlling the
manoeuvre and jump drives, as well as reaction drives
if present. They run supervisory software to monitor
and control the secondary nodes. Secondary nodes
handle system-specific duties such as life support and
power distribution, as well as ancillary low-bandwidth
tasks such as a passenger’s game program when
those are not run on personal computers. The need
for these secondary nodes is driven by the ship’s size
and complexity, while the primary nodes scale with
the ship’s performance. For example, a small jump4 attack ship with high performance fire control and
automated defences has much more powerful primary
nodes than an unarmed jump-1 megafreighter. The
secondary nodes tend not to change without major

changes to the ship’s hull and thus are sometimes
seen as part of the hull, so the term ‘ship’s computer’
usually refers just to the primary nodes.
A ‘node’ refers to a processing unit, local memory and
associated circuitry that can be compared to a personal
computer in architecture. Primary nodes are usually
more powerful than secondary nodes, as maintaining
heat and oxygen levels aboard a small ship does not
take as much computation power as plotting an orbital
intercept course to dock with a highport, let alone
plotting an interstellar jump.
For safety, primary nodes are at different locations
throughout the ship. A typical arrangement is to
have three primary nodes: one on the bridge, one in
engineering and one near the ship’s centre. These
either rotate which is the true primary or do their
operations in triplicate, using a best-of-three model
to trap individual errors. While extremely reliable, this
limits the ability to install extra parallel processing
to handle additional tasks. This is why software that
does not need to run on the primary nodes will rarely
be run on them. It is possible to use supercomputers
with substantial parallel processing power as consoles
separately from computers used to control the ship’s
systems and some science ships do this to run complex
analysis software that only needs to draw data from the
ship’s sensors, not to control them.
Jump Control software has proven remarkably resistant
to compression, with known expansion as it becomes
capable of handling longer jumps, so it became a
standard by which spacecraft computers are measured.
Most starships have no use for more than the minimum
computer needed to run their Jump Control, as it only
runs when entering jump, freeing computing resources
for other tasks at other times. Ships that might want to
do something else while entering jump, such as ships
expecting to fight their way to the jump limit, will have
higher-powered computers to run Jump Control and
other software simultaneously.

SHIP SOFTWARE

While similar in concept to communications, editing,
entertainment and other personal software, the
programs that run on a ship’s primary processors are

53

