T

much larger and more expensive. They are shipped
on cassettes or other hard media as a backup in
case the executing copies become corrupted. These
cassettes are also miniature computers themselves,
running small but vital elements of the program. This
architecture makes it harder to copy and distribute the
program, or run multiple copies of the same program
on the same computer, without paying licence fees
to its maker. Although art, poetry and other forms
of creative expression have protections in the Third
Imperium, software must protect itself. While software
can still be pirated in theory, in practice it is usually
more reliable and less expensive to buy more copies
if needed. This is only true of software designed to run
on ship’s computers; programs designed for personal
computers have less protection.

The Computer

Like most software, ship’s software that comes in multiple
versions is named in the ‘Function/Version’ format. In
some cases, the benefits of higher versions are clear.
Jump Control/X can control jumps of up to X parsecs but
while Virtual Crew/2 visibly outperforms Virtual Crew/1,
the specifics of how it does better are a little more
esoteric. As with other software, ship’s software without a
listed version number has no other version. Manoeuvre
software might differ from ship-to-ship but the basics are
the same, with no appreciable room for improvement
without upgrading the drive hardware it controls.

54

Several basic programs come standard with any ship’s
computer. Software to control the engines is necessary,
as is basic interface and navigation software.
Communications software capable of interfacing with
every relevant data encoding standard is free thanks
to the backers of those standards and almost all ship’s
computers have basic reference libraries. Many are
extended at the whim of the crew, downloading large
and freely available packages from starports. There
are paid library extensions as well, most of them for
specialty research with limited audiences. Secondary
nodes come with standard software, from door control
to life support to power plant management, while
software to coordinate and interface with these nodes
comes with the main computer.
The practice of wide, free distribution of
communications standards builds on thousands
of years of Vilani practice. Software-controlled
communicators that can easily convert between
known communication standards are typically
TL8+ and devices at TL7 or lower may only work
on their world of manufacture without significant
reconfiguration. This is not a problem for starships,

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

aside from a few extreme low-tech prototypes. It is
something to keep in mind when buying discounted
low-TL personal gear, however.
This practice extends to clock synchronisation.
Standard transponder beacons, part of traffic control in
most systems, broadcast local time so incoming ships
can adjust their clocks upon jump breakout. Where
these beacons are not present, standard astrogation
software can deduce current time to within a second as
part of confirming the ship’s arrival. Ships that do not
jump for a while typically automatically sync their clocks
every week, before even a millisecond’s drift can set in.
While software can be backed up easily, foiling
run-once-and-self-erase schemes some software
engineers use to milk unwary ship owners, there is
some software that becomes useless after a certain
time due to external factors. The most well-known of
these are ‘jump tapes’, which allow a ship to operate
without an astrogator but are only useful for about a
week after creation, since the data they are based on
quickly becomes obsolete.

CONSOLES AND CONTROL PANELS
Many sophonts only ever see these together and so
use the terms interchangeably. However, given the
wide variety of control schemes for starships across
Charted Space, some formal standardisation of
terminology is useful.
Technically, a ‘control panel’ is the direct interface
to some system or device, often switches and/or
analogue controls. A centrally located control panel
that houses many different direct interfaces may have
banks of indicator lights showing the current status
of each switch. A ‘console’ is a device that interfaces
between a user and one or more control panels.
Often, consoles connect to multiple control panels to
turn devices on and off remotely rather than the user
having to run between control panels. A console is
usually a small, dedicated computer that provides a
more user-friendly interface.
Some devices do not have user-accessible control
panels, only being controllable through consoles. In these
cases, the plugs and interfaces through which the console
communicates are considered the ‘control panel’. There
is usually a stripped-down console that can be plugged
in for diagnostics, sometimes a single one intended to be
swapped between systems during maintenance.

R

