The most common ship-duty-related use of neural
augmentations is to run console software. These
equate to other consoles depending on how distracted
the user is while interfacing with the ship. Being able
to engage in a firefight unhindered while using neural
console software is comparable to a hand controller.
Merely being able to walk around while using it is like a
portable controller. Anything beyond that is effectively

a general console. Technically all neural consoles
are system consoles, linking the ‘computer’ that is a
sophont’s brain to the ship’s computer.
General consoles are further categorised by type of use:
● WORKSTATIONS, intended for use by crew only,
allow the user to interact with the ship’s computer
and pull up data that can be customised for the
user’s needs. These consoles give information
about the entire ship and access to control panels
throughout. They are most often found on the
bridge and in staterooms.
● PUBLIC DATA STATIONS are akin to workstations but
intended for passengers and guests. They allow
for basic information to be pulled from the ship’s
computer, unlike the tertiary nodes sometimes
provided to passengers that have no access
to ship systems. This information is typically
limited to expected times of arrival, atmospheric
conditions aboard ship and the ship’s schedule,
although some will have information on the power
plant or similar systems available in hope of
soothing nervous passengers. Some have access
to read data from the ship’s sensors, particularly
on science ships where ‘passengers’ are there to
gather data and perform analysis.
● OPERATING CONSOLES are technical interfaces
dedicated to a device on the ship. The most
well-known operating consoles are often found
in a ship’s engineering section, being used for
sensors, jump drive, power plant operation and
maintenance. Sometimes a lost crewmember
or passenger will complain when they cannot
access the music library on the main computer, not
realising they are on a console dedicated to only
one system aboard the ship. An operating console

The Computer

A console can be physically installed on or near a
control panel, in another part of the ship such as the
bridge, or carried around for remote access, which
helps determine the type of console it is:
● GENERAL CONSOLES are installations too large to
carry by hand, typically fixed in position, using their
size to present easily accessible information and
options. A ship’s bridge is primarily a collection
of general consoles, although these can appear
throughout a ship.
● PORTABLE CONTROLLERS and HAND CONTROLLERS
are devices that grant remote access to the ship’s
computer, hand controllers being roughly hand
size or smaller while portable controllers are
anything larger, typically arm or chest size. Portable
controllers do not have direct access like a general
console but usually have a full keyboard and
screen. A hand controller is not as powerful but has
the advantages of versatility and size.
● A SYSTEM CONSOLE is an interface between two
computers so they can interact and perform
tasks in tandem. A system console is helpful for
complex algorithms that take more processing
power than one computer can do alone. It can
link remote computers so a user can control
components on both. Usually, this requires a
hard-wired connection.

55

