T

●

●

is connected to every control panel that runs the
function it is set up for, usually having the most
up-to-date and detailed information available. This
is perfect for precise timing or minute controlling of
the item, such as running jump entry sequences.
CONTROL CONSOLES add task-specific control
hardware and/or displays to a general console.
Pilot and turret controls are common examples.
When this approach is used for a captain’s or
fleet commander’s dedicated station it is called
a COMMAND CONSOLE. The console is usually
composed of a mix of buttons, switches, joysticks,
pedals or even steering wheels as the user
requires. This can include full-body interfaces with
haptic controls for a truly all-in-one system. Another
type of control console centres around a virtual
reality headset, taking over a user’s perceptual
space while in use.
DESIGN CONSOLES are technically just a subtype of
control console or command console, focusing on
large displays or holographic volumes with which
a user can interact. Voice control is a common

The Computer

ASLAN CONSOLES

56

The art of adapting consoles with varying amounts
of options is taken to extremes on ships designed
for culturally traditional Aslan. Males prefer
simplified controls where one push of a button can
perform all the tasks in a sequence such as sensing
enemies, auto-targeting and firing on multiple
targets instead of handling each action individually.
Female Aslan favour larger and more detailed
control panels that minutely control every aspect of
the same sequence, finding they can sometimes
beat the computer’s response times. This is a
cultural preference, not biological, since Aslan
who adhere more to Imperial culture typically use
standard technical options.
There is extensive Aslan literature noting the parallel
between the nature of programming interfaces,
translating between short information-dense
displays with symbols the programmer understands
and long equations using the few basic symbols the
computer understands, and the contrast between
female and male console controls.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

secondary input channel so these are rarely seen
in areas with multiple consoles such as a bridge,
instead appearing in isolated rooms where one or a
few users will work on one task.
Most consoles are customisable and shipyards typically
have a number of styles available. Although not as
popular, some ship owners prefer the tactile feel of
pressing buttons and flipping switches and will pay
extra when replacing a worn-out console to obtain
a refurbished one of the same type. Most modern
ships come with holographic displays or touch screen
consoles adaptable to a wider range of users. There
are a variety of ‘dynamic configuration’ standards which
allow users to easily customise consoles as they like.
These configurations can take advantage of different
senses. Controls for most human ships are oriented
around visual and tactile feedback but some species
like to take advantage of their auditory processing
capabilities. While everyone may be familiar with
alarm sounds, auditory control systems add beeps,
pings, hums and musical notes to indicate the status of
equipment on board. Aslan engineers are well known

R

