for this and are often quite proud of knowing the status
of the entire ship simply by listening. Dolphin ships take
this a step further and can generate an entire tactical
display of the ship and its surroundings.

Do not try to use an existing sophont’s brain
as a bioelectric ship’s computer. Those who
try this tend to do so out of an obsession with
cutting corners and short-term cost savings.
They ignore that most sophont brains are
incapable of the scale of computation needed
for even Jump Control/1, without significant
augmentation. The brain winds up as a
permanently installed crew member, often
one that did not volunteer and consequently
hates whoever caused its condition. Giving a
starship the ability to hate and then becoming
the object of its hatred often leads to a reduced
life expectancy. Further, in the Third Imperium
such involuntary installation is treated as a form
of slavery, resulting in lengthy incarceration or
execution of those responsible.

Some consoles control and report on many aspects
of the ship at one time. Others are simplified for basic
operations, allowing the computer to execute multiple
commands at the touch of a single button or command.
A simplified sensor operator’s console might display the
result of a general scan around the ship that is always
running when the ship is not docked, whereas one that is
set to be more technical will give options for scanning a
specific area of space, picking which sensors to use, and
configuring power levels and frequencies to monitor.

COMPUTING HARDWARE

Those who actively wish to ‘become one with
the ship’ should consider neural augmentation
instead of direct internment.

●

often restructure themselves over time to learn.
Learning computers must be trained more than
programmed, so they are often flooded with large
sets of data as part of their creation. Cymbeline
transponder-brains are an example of this.
BIOELECTRIC computers use chemical decision
gates, prompted by electric potential delivered by
living neurons. This is how most sophont brains
work. For this reason, those who make these
computers walk a fine line to make sure they are not
creating anything that could be legally considered a
sophont. Traditional programming techniques are all
but impossible on this architecture. Like positronic
devices, bioelectric devices can learn, so they are
trained for their tasks.

HOW COMPUTING SOFTWARE WORKS

Not everything is processors. Data comes from
somewhere and goes somewhere as input and output.
Any program is limited to acting on the input it receives
and acting via the output allowed. A simple TL7 hand
calculator lacks the ability to explode or fire weapons.
In all cases, computers are highly complex systems
built out of basic elements, where processes and data
can be considered separate from the hardware. Most
familiar to Imperial readers are architectures built
upon Boolean logic, a Galanglic term deriving from
the Solomani phrase for basic binary logic, reinvented
countless times over the ages.

The Computer

Ship’s computers run on the same basic principles as any
other. There are a variety in use across Charted Space,
with Tech Level variations and local preferences, although
the hardware can be distilled into six general types:
● ELECTRONIC computers have electrons directed
within circuits. These circuits are primarily
metal, with electric fields changing how current
flows through certain points. For instance, an
electronic touchscreen interface changes its
electric potential at the location touched, which
triggers the nearest sensors. Most computers are
electronic and are vulnerable to electromagnetic
pulses, unlike any other type.
● PHOTONIC and FIBRE OPTIC computers manipulate
photons in light channels. These light channels
act as circuits, although they are typically
some sort of translucent crystal where optical
properties can change based on the intensity of
light or electric signals.
● FLUIDIC COMPUTERS CONTROL liquids or gases
flowing through miniature pipes and valves. Fluidic
devices are sensitive to temperature variations.
● MECHANICAL computers use clockwork gears, cams,
levers and springs. These are invariably the largest,
with higher maintenance costs to replace worn-down
elements. Although they can be produced at lower
Tech Levels, the results are rarely practical beyond
relatively basic mathematics.
● POSITRONIC and QUANTUM computers use the
flow of subatomic particles within carefully
micro-engineered three-dimensional structures.
Processes that require selecting from large arrays
of possibilities or learning over time are easier to
implement on this architecture, although traditional
programming techniques are more difficult.
Early quantum computers are programmed
like electronic ones but positronic ones more

57

