T

The general theme of how computers work is
‘staggering complexity built up from basic operations’.
The basics of Boolean logic illustrate this and provide
a basis for understanding how computers think. Given
the extensive controls on any starship, knowing the
basic thought processes of what keeps things from
killing the crew can be useful.
Boolean logic deals with variables that are either true
or false, often depicted as 1 or 0 respectively. This
is the basis of many electronic, photonic, fluidic and
mechanical computers, although it is not commonly
used for quantum or bioelectric ones. There are three
basic operations:
● NOT, represented by ¬: Takes one input and outputs
its opposite. If x is 1, ¬x is 0. If x is 0, ¬x is 1.
● AND, represented by ∧: Takes two inputs, true only
if both inputs are true. The only time x ∧ y is 1 is
when both x and y are 1. If either or both are 0
then x ∧ y is 0.
● OR, represented by ∨: Takes two inputs, true if
either or both inputs are true. The only time x ∨ y is
0 is when both x and y are 0. If either or both are 1
then x ∨ y is 1.
However, this can be reduced to two basic operations: x
∧ y = ¬(¬x ∨ ¬y) while x ∨ y = ¬(¬x ∧ ¬y). Since ‘x ∧ y’ is
easier to read and work with than ‘¬(¬x ∨ ¬y)’, sophonts
just write ‘x ∧ y’. Computers, not caring what is easy for
sophonts to work with but wanting a minimum of different
symbols to deal with, read it as ‘¬(¬x ∨ ¬y)’.

The Computer

Other symbols encode more complex operations such
as XOR, represented by ⊕: True when exactly one of
its two inputs is true. Again, ‘x ⊕ y’ is what sophonts
see, while computers read it as ‘(x ∨ y) ∧ ¬(x ∧ y)’.

Computer programs, which are sets of instructions that
tell computers how to do things, take many layers of
this piled on top of one another. These layers produce
values that are compared to other values, resulting
in certain actions being taken or not taken. This is
sometimes written as, ‘IF (comparison) THEN (action)
ELSE (other action)’. For example, assuming x and
y are each either 0 or 1, adding x+y works out to be
this: IF (x ∧ y) THEN (output 2) ELSE IF (x ∨ y) THEN
(output 1) ELSE (output 0). In Anglic that translates to,
‘if x and y are both 1 then x+y=2, otherwise if either
of them is 1 (which means the other is 0) then x+y=1,
otherwise (if both of them are 0) x+y=0’.
To give a more practical example, one that shows
how simple-to-sophonts operations are complex
for computers, take a relatively simple door control
program. When someone approaches a door that

58

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

should open for that person, the computer must
recognise that a person-like object is approaching the
door AND that object matches a recognised person
AND that person is approved to access this door.
● Recognising that a person is approaching a door
means checking the input from a camera to see if
the image the camera is reporting is of a personlike object.
○ This requires checking to see if it is time to see
if a person-like object is detected near the door.
■ This means comparing the current time to
the time the last check was done. If it has
been long enough, run a new check and
update ‘when the last check was done’ to the
current time.
○ The camera’s computer needs to know what a
‘person-like object’ is. This typically matches a
heat signature of the approximately correct size
and temperature, which means that a simple
printed picture of a crew member will not fool
the camera.
● If a person-like object is approaching the door,
check the object’s details and compare them to all
known crew. This comparison does not care about
anyone who is not part of the registered crew or
passenger list, nor does it care about recognising if
the thing is not a person at all: IF (the object is not
a known person) THEN (leave the door closed).
○ This requires there to be a database of known
crew and passengers as well as a means of
transmitting data to and from said database.
■ Which requires protocols for encoding data
from the camera and its computer to the
database. See HOW COMMUNICATORS WORK
starting on page 67 for a sense of the levels
of detail that entails.
○ This requires an explicit list of things to
compare: height, ratio of eye sizes, nose shape
and size and more. This must be explicitly
defined or the computer cannot deal with it.
■ The longer the list of things to compare,
the slower the computer takes to cycle
through them. Identification badges with
a transmitter, barcode or similar are
standardised in a way that living bodies are
not, although it is easier for an unauthorised
user to swipe a badge than to swipe a body
part. This simplifies the checklist, with a
corresponding trade-off in security.
○ Some door control programs alert the bridge if
a person-like object that is not someone who is
supposed to be aboard is detected. If a piece
of cargo keeps registering as a person-sized
object approaching the cargo bay doors, some
crews add it to the ‘known persons’ list with no
access just to keep it from triggering alerts.

R

