●

Once all of that is done and the individual
identified, go through the list of people approved
to access the door. IF (any of them match) THEN
(open the door) ELSE (leave the door closed).

All the above, including many further levels of detail
omitted here, is done in a fraction of a second. Those
crew who configure the access lists only need to think of
it as ‘door control’ and need not consider all these layers.
Tricking the cameras into thinking there is a personlike object with features matching an authorised
person will open a door. To counter this, the cameras
are difficult to deceive and the list of features is hard
to fake. Likewise, eye injury or an eye-covering mask
may prevent a door from opening for an authorised
person, instead alerting the bridge to an unrecognised
person-like object. This feature can be disabled for
a costume party or when the crew is wearing vacc
suits that do not show their faces well. Some ships
assign permissions to certain vacc suits with easyto-recognise identifiers, assuming that only their
assigned person will wear them.

SECURITY

Despite the centrality of a ship’s computer to its
operation, there are those, especially from low-TL
worlds, who dismiss the importance of cybersecurity,
focusing instead on securing the actual ship. Likewise,
there are those who believe that sufficient cybersecurity
can guard against any threat, remote or physical. They
are both mistaken. Computer security and physical
security are intrinsically linked – when one fails, the
other is soon to follow.

CYBERSECURITY

It is easy to overbalance confidentiality over
availability or vice versa. Such a system should not
be considered secure and usable. It does no better
to forbid anyone, even a ship’s engineers, from ever
starting up the ship’s main power plant than to allow
anyone, perhaps a pirate on a nearby ship, to shut
that power plant down at any time.

Likewise, most attacks are along one of three lines:
● FORGERY: Guessing or stealing someone’s
credentials without that user’s active assistance.
● SOCIAL ENGINEERING: Tricking an authorised user
into opening access or providing secure information.
● CRACKING: Exploiting flaws in the system.
While there are more insidious attacks, they are rarely
encountered outside of a military context. Most small
ship crew need only defend against these three forms.
Anti-forgery advice mostly falls upon those who set up
and administer computer systems but an understanding
of the basics can limit complaints. Most flavours of
authentication use one of three factors: something the
user knows, something the user is, or something the
user has. If a system needs extra security, use more
than one of these factors. Requiring two passwords
is not much better than requiring one, but requiring a
password in addition to a biometrics check or keycard
is far more secure.
Media portrayals aside, good quality biometric scanners
require signs of life, not just the presence of a specific
body part. Aside from deterring bloody-minded pirates
trying the simple solution, it is harder to forge a living
organism with just the right eyeball or thumb than
to print an inorganic replica of an organ. High TL
biomanufacturing facilities are capable of this but even at
high TLs, most attackers do not have their own factories
with which to grow custom tools for each attack.
It is widely known to not publicly post access information
such as passwords, except for systems supposed to be
open to anyone who can see the postings. While a certain
minimum complexity is needed to prevent guessing, such
information should not be so complex that those who
require access cannot remember it. Group accounts with
shared authenticators should not be used if possible,
instead assigning roles and permissions to individual
accounts. If a computer uses biometrics, they should
make sure to use a form that will be recognised through
typical conditions, such as not using a voiceprint scanner
that will not recognise a sick crewmember. If using
physical tokens such as a keycard, there should be a
system by which a given token can quickly and easily be
declared missing or stolen.

The Computer

Cybersecurity is the art of keeping computer systems
secure. The three basic principles of cybersecurity are:
● AVAILABILITY: Information should be available to
those who are supposed to have access to it.
● CONFIDENTIALITY: Information should not be
available to those who are not supposed to have
access to it.
● INTEGRITY: Information should be correct and
trustworthy, protected from corruption and
unauthorised changes.

There are three main steps to accomplish these ends:
● AUTHENTICATION: Prove that a user is who the user
claims to be.
● AUTHORISATION: Confirm or deny whether a given
user has the authority or right to do a certain thing.
● NONREPUDIATION: Maintain trustworthy evidence of
what each user did.

59

