T

Most people have heard the basic advice about
defence against social engineering – since it directly
attacks users, it is something that people must defend
against themselves. Anyone who asks for someone
else’s password is either lazy, incompetent, or trying
to break security. Likewise, if someone asks someone
else to use the latter’s access to do an action such
as installing a file or unlocking something, the latter
person must perform the authentication, authorisation
and nonrepudiation steps. This is often inconvenient
enough that if there will be more than occasional such
requests, the requester should usually have access
to do the task without bothering anyone else. Most
attacks on this vector try to convey a sense of urgency,
claiming there is no time to perform these steps,
particularly authentication.

The Computer

There is not much that most crew can do directly about
cracking, as vulnerabilities come with the ship’s software.
Defence against this form of attack is one reason why
critical ship software is often purchased from reputable
vendors rather than copied for free, as reputable vendors
have thoroughly tested their wares to reduce or eliminate
flaws. Those who administer a ship’s computer can
lock down and turn off options the ship is unlikely to or
should not use. For example, those who never carry
large volumes of survey data or mail rarely have a need
to enable high-volume data transfer. Likewise, alarms
can be set to notify said administrator upon detection of
unusual patterns. Naval architects or sufficiently paranoid
computer administrators will often choose to isolate
systems from each other to limit the harm caused by one
vulnerability. The deliberate absence of connection for this
purpose is known as an ‘air gap’.
Attacking a computer requires some means of access.
Attackers further than docking range are limited
to communications with the computer and social
engineering attacks on authorised users, both of which
can be locked down. Attackers with physical access to
a computer have more options. Many computers are
configured to allow low-level access that can override
all other users, only to those with physical access and
correct authentication, both of which the defenders are
supposed to have. This is termed ‘root access’. Certain
attacks taught in espionage organisations start by
gaining authentication and physical access, such as by
installing hard-to-detect hardware to monitor inputs to
obtain passwords and provide physical access to users
who are not themselves physically present.
If keeping an attacker out of a computer fails, a
common last-ditch response option is deletion and
recovery. If a ship’s computer’s data is routinely backed

60

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

up and these backups are secure, the data can be
restored from the latest backup after removing the
attacker. This requires setting up a backup system,
making sure the backups happen and keeping them
secure. Most shipyards set ship’s computers to do this
automatically, so the administrator merely needs to
know how to restore from backup if necessary. When
buying a used ship, it is a good idea to make certain
these backups have not failed or been deliberately
disabled. It is customary to delete old backups upon
transfer of ship ownership, as former owners should no
longer have control over the ship.

PHYSICAL SECURITY

Door locks are sturdy enough to resist bashing in and
difficult to unlock without tricking their control circuitry
but they also alert the bridge if they think someone is
attempting an unauthorised bypass. Once the computer
identifies someone in need of apprehension, it is almost
impossible to escape tracking while aboard the ship.
Cameras and microphones are not the only tools to do
this – even hiding in a low berth or cryoberth is logged
and recorded. Also, atmospheric monitoring can find
people hiding aboard. Iris hatches and particularly
sensitive doors have sturdier locks, whether to deter
theft or give crew more time to react.
Video and audio recording comes standard in all
rooms except staterooms and can only be cut off with
permission. Most staterooms do not have cameras for
privacy’s sake, but cameras and microphones outside
can usually pick up evidence of any crimes that happen
inside, given the short list of acts deemed criminal
in Imperial space (murder on a ship is hard to hide,
use of nuclear weapons even more so). Corridors or
cargo holds have cameras installed in more prominent
areas to provide records for thefts and cargo handling.
Some cameras zoom in on any movement they detect,
while others stay zoomed out to record a larger area.
This video feed is saved to the main computer, both
for current reference and documentation of incidents.
Some ships wipe the recordings every week or month,
while mission-oriented ships keep recordings of an
entire operation as a log for their employers. Very few
ships deliberately keep logs for more than several
months, although if automatic log deletion has been
disabled, security recordings can stretch back for years
without significantly impacting data storage.
Video security ties into the door and iris valve security
system, and much of its concerns tie into cybersecurity,
particularly in availability and confidentiality. A captain
can remotely lock and unlock all the doors in the ship
or give and revoke access to sensitive areas. Any crew
to whom the captain gave administrative access can

R

