While limiting access to key areas is important, the
default setting for internal doors during a power
outage is to be unlocked. This default setting can be
overridden but this is very rare on any ship with a
sensible captain – emergency situations where access
is needed to save lives are more common and often
deadlier than boarding actions. Most doors, particularly
iris valves, have redundant power feeds to frustrate
attackers and booby traps involving environmental
hazards or explosives are uncommon on small ships.
Traps involving gravity and depressurisation are more
common, as they stem from standard systems.

Drawers, cabinets and specific systems can be
secured via the same controls. External sensors
tie into the ship’s security, telling the pilot how
close they are to landing, the captain who or what
is getting close to the ship and alerting the crew to
incoming attacks. Shipyards have a wide variety of
security packages available.

In deciding the best security measures for the ship,
focus on who should access the area. If it is an area
like the commons then open access is best but limit
what functions are available in case a passenger tries
to use a crew terminal. The bridge has higher security
on the door than the computer terminals, as those who
have access typically have authority over the ship and
may need unhindered access to its systems. A cargo
hold may have tight security measures near the doors
for loading and unloading, with only a few cameras in
the hold. A captain may want to appear welcoming to
his crew and leave his office door open but may have
biometric scanners on the drawers of the file cabinets
where they keep the ship’s important papers.

The captain’s access to open any door on the ship is
a failsafe, programmed separately from primary door
configuration routines in case of mutiny or, more often,
computer malfunction. The captain’s access should be
as secure as the primary door configuration routines,
otherwise this becomes just another weakness
for attackers to exploit. Cheap, relatively low TL
electronics can defeat voiceprint access and requiring
biometric access is common if scanners are installed
on most doors anyway. If not, a passcode known only
to the captain is typical.

The Computer

do this too, although captains should be aware that
crew will often seek to make things more convenient
to themselves, even at the expense of security. Most
small ships give access to each door either to all
registered passengers and crew, all crew members or
specific people, with the captain having non-overridable
access to all doors. Large ships have more fine-grained
access patterns reflecting their needs, for example
giving drive compartment door access only to officers
and the engineering department rather than the entire
crew. If there is a pet such as a ship’s cat, that pet will
usually have its own door access list.

Whatever a ship’s security, it is best to keep valuable
data, computer access, items and cargo away from
people who may steal it. If a captain is in doubt about a
crew or passenger, the captain should limit their access

61

