T

to the ship’s systems before a problem can occur. Most
computers are set to automatically recognise hostile
boarding parties, locking all doors and terminals in their
path. High-value cargo can be hidden behind doors that
close flush with the walls, though care must be taken to
shield them from pirates’ sensors.

STOWAWAYS

Stowaways present a special case of physical security,
as they are usually not hostile – although some are,
pretending to be innocent until they can hijack the ship
– but consume life support that was not budgeted for
and present safety concerns, sometimes legal liability.

The Computer

It should be standard practice to internally scan
a ship before or just after departure from port, to
check for stowaways, wildlife, contaminants and
anything else the ship may have unintentionally
picked up. In particular, landing gear wells should
be checked. Cargo containers should be inspected
upon acceptance or loading, to verify cargo and look
for hidden extras. Make sure that all passengers who
were onboard upon arrival have departed before
leaving port, save for any who booked passage for the
next leg of the ship’s voyage. In addition to security
measures to prevent unauthorised boarding – it is
easier and safer to prevent stowaways than to deal
with them – all entrances and exits at port should be
logged, with a tally run before departure to flag any
discrepancies. It is best practice to automate these
checks to make sure they always happen. Manual
double-checks are routine on large ships, although
small ships often do not have the crew to spare.

62

Once underway, excessive oxygen consumption is
often the first sign of a stowaway and can give a rough
idea of location. Thermal and high-sensitivity acoustic
hand scanners are the most commonly available
tools to track down the precise location. Stowaways
encountered underway are often scared and not fully
rational, having made the decision to stow away in the
first place, so an empathetic but cautious approach will
produce better results than threats.
Remember, stowaways begin by lying to the crew
by not declaring their presence. They are not
friends. Although some crews think it is traditional
to put stowaways to work, this is not recommended.
Sabotage concerns aside, stowaways are generally
untrained labour, often still getting used to life aboard
ship and much more likely to injure themselves or
damage equipment. Many believe they have all

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

manner of rights; while slavery is illegal, execution of
stowaways is legally justified in the Third Imperium as
they endanger ship and crew.
If they are discovered before entering jumpspace
and a more humane fate is desired, either return to
port to offload them or put them in vacc suits with a
beacon, eject them and notify the local port. If they
are discovered after entering jump, best practice
is to give them basic passage in locked quarters
– separately, if several are discovered – or low
passage, then upon arrival hand them over to the Port
Authority or kick them out. Whatever the resolution, if
someone not aboard owns the ship, the entire incident
including handling of the stowaways must be logged,
documented and reported.
Stowaways who are honest, work hard if offered
work and get the crew to like them, may reach their
destination free and clear with a bit of pocket change,
which is usually the best possible outcome.

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

Even in organic sophonts, there are many kinds of
intelligence. Skills with maths and logic are not the same
as a knack for poetry or puns, while neither is identical to
an ability to understand emotional cues. Some sophonts
train in multiple kinds of intelligence, while others focus
only on specialising in a few skills. Scientists from across
Charted Space have not decisively determined how best
to categorise these types of intelligence. It may be one
of those things that sophontic intelligence is unable to
determine about itself.
With that in mind, the categories of artificial intelligence
likewise blur. However, there are a few useful
distinctions one can make. These terms technically
apply to non-artificial intelligences too as almost all
sophonts and even sub-sophont animals have ‘task
resolver trained brains’.

PROGRAMS AND BRAINS
Positronic and bioelectric computers are more often
trained than programmed, while other types are more
often programmed than trained. Learning computers
are generally called ‘brains’.
While sophisticated programs can seem intelligent,
their creators have anticipated countless scenarios
and laid out procedures to deal with them, this list of
procedures being a program. Unexpected behaviour
can emerge from extremely complex procedures but
this list does not change itself in reaction to input. At

R

