most, programs can accumulate a long series of inputs
and discern patterns from them but only those they
recognise. For example, highly sophisticated chatbots
designed to carry on spoken or written conversation
can never learn to paint.
Brains change themselves in reaction to input. This
allows them to learn but causes them to degrade
over time. The exact means of decay depends on the
hardware. The primary way that positronic brains fail
is from hardware gradually degraded by miniscule
antimatter-matter reactions. While there are libraries
devoted to the number of ways that organic brains
malfunction over time, how long they last varies.
Anagathic-boosted organic sophonts have the best
longevity, typically numbering a few centuries.
Brains can be further divided into ‘trained’, ‘recorded’
and ‘programmed’.
A ‘trained brain’ may have been created with a certain
configuration to give it certain knowledge and thoughts
but the majority of its learning reflects changes from
input data. The pre-existing knowledge and thoughts
are referred to as ‘instincts’ or sometimes ‘genetic
memory’, especially when talking about naturally
evolved organic intelligences.
Bioelectric brains can be recorded but not positronic or
quantum. These ‘recorded brains’ can then be replayed
on other devices, typically other bioelectric brains or
electronic computers. They start operations with their
intended knowledge and thus are more consistent and
reliable than trained brains. Most wafers are recorded
brains, which is part of the reason they only work for
certain genetic profiles. The highest fidelity recordings
are personality wafers, while other wafers come from
lower fidelity recordings. The key difference is that
recorded brains stay functionally the same as their
initial recordings, while trained brains do not.

Another way to group artificial intelligences is by what
they do.
Task assistants help someone to do a task. They have
no initiative. When left alone, they are utterly inert. A
database is a prime example. When asked a question it
will answer but does nothing if not prompted.
Task enablers allow a task to be done. Some can
be set to perform a task under pre-set conditions. A
factory’s artificial intelligence, running machines to
stamp out part after part using templates designed
before the factory started operations is one example.
Task resolvers can act on their own. They typically have
orders to follow and other limits on their initiative but
they can be thought of as additional crew. Virtual Crew
software is an example, as are personality wafers.

IS IT A SOPHONT?

If it is not a trained brain, it is not a sophont. This
keeps personality wafers from being accorded the
legal status of sophoncy, save for ‘permanent’ or
otherwise long-lasting recordings. Some worry that
this technically disqualifies newborn natural organic
sophonts. However, the amount of input they receive to
reconfigure their brains to being able to independently
survive quickly renders such worries moot.
If it is never a task resolver, it is not a sophont. Constant
initiative is not necessary to demonstrate this, just
some of the time. These qualities are necessary but
not sufficient to demonstrate sophonthood. In the Third
Imperium, sophonthood is a legal distinction which
only the Imperial government may rule on, so any
questionable cases should defer to the government’s
ruling. Imperial courts have a well-defined, if little
used, procedure for non-sophont entities desiring legal
sophont status to demonstrate they are acting on their
own initiative and capable of learning. Court records
show that most such cases fail on these grounds.
SDG-313F transponder-brains are a useful example.
They are limited versions of Cymbeline brains, which
are task resolver trained brains of sub-sophontic
intelligence. SDG-313F transponder-brains are
passive, so are not task resolvers. Rarely do they learn
and grow significantly beyond their initial programming
and their architecture is not bioelectric, making them
programmed brains. Task enabler programmed brains
are not task resolver trained brains. In the eyes of
Imperial law, only task resolver trained brains can be

The Computer

Some complex pieces of software change themselves
over time in response to input, making ‘programmed
brains’. The exact line between ‘program’ and
‘programmed brain’ is fuzzy but hinges on the
presence or absence of a significant capacity for selfmodification without explicit prompting or guidance.
Attempts to create trained brains this way have failed
– if a brain is allowed too much leeway to change
itself it eventually breaks, becoming unresponsive
or unusable. In practice, programmed brains act like
recorded brains in most aspects, save that they run on
computers other than bioelectric.

TASK ASSISTANTS, ENABLERS AND RESOLVERS

63

