T

The Computer

DRONES AND ROBOTS

64

The terms ‘drone’ and ‘robot’, although often
used interchangeably, refer to two different types
of automaton. The first is a shell that must be
controlled by some outside force, whether that
be software running on a computer outside the
drone or a sophont with some control apparatus,
while the latter can operate autonomously.
Robots are noticeably more expensive but
typically more capable. A common setup is for
one advanced robot to supervise a small group
of drones. Some robots may exceed the skills
of even a well-trained sophont, although they
are expensive to the point that it usually takes
decades to recoup their cost.
Robots are limited in their ability to react to
unexpected situations, which bankrupts most
efforts to entirely replace sophont labour with
robots. Some remark on how much continued
demand exists for sophont workforces despite
thousands of years of living with automation. This
is the primary reason why. Automation can assist
sophonts, greatly reducing the need for their
labour but not completely eliminating it.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

sophonts, so SDG-313F transponder-brains are not
sophonts and using them does not amount to slavery,
although there is not a universal consensus on this.

DRONES AND VIRTUAL CREW

A ship’s computer is a smart tool, assisting crew in their
tasks or doing tasks on their behalf. Some ships take
this to extremes with software packages that provide
a virtual crew to handle piloting, sensor operation and
gunnery, along with drones to handle tasks such as
engineering that require moving around the ship and
interacting with its systems. Astrogation must still be
done by a sophont but some ships can theoretically fly
with an astrogator alone.
Robots and virtual crews are more valuable on ships
performing questionable deeds, as fewer crew mean
less morals to overcome and fewer people to keep
secrets, to the point that a mostly automated small
ship will automatically draw suspicion at most ports. A
ship controlled by its computer increases the potential
damage from attacks on the ship’s computer, so any
captain with a mostly drone crew needs very good
computer security to keep from being hacked out of
command. While there are some downsides to having
a mostly virtual crew, they can make up for deficiencies
in skills the crew lacks. Ships that exist to ferry a small
team to their target such as special forces or a research
group may have a virtual crew take care of the ship,

R

