performing routine system checks and alerting the
crew to any abnormalities, so the sophonts can focus
on their mission. Virtual crew have supported many a
sophont as they navigated the stars, sometimes simply
to have something to talk with during the voyage.
Many of the virtual crews on the market today are
designed to be portable across a wide variety of
spacecraft and computers. Although this is necessary
for a given piece of software to be sold at all, this
does result in a loss of optimised function, as
software cannot capitalise on the features of a ship
if some other ship lacks those same features. Ship’s
brains – robotic brains built into a spacecraft’s hull
– do away with this restriction. As they are expected
to only run on one spacecraft throughout their entire
service life, they can adapt to the ship they are
mounted to and maximise their efficiency. In addition,
standard virtual crews do not coordinate between
disparate systems particularly well. Gunnery software
may have to react to piloting software’s decisionmaking, instead of the two working together. Ship’s
brains can control the ship’s systems at a higher
level and can operate them all in concert.
For tasks that a virtual crew cannot handle,
drones are a relatively inexpensive less-than-totalreplacement option, useful for many functions a
sophont might find difficult, dangerous or tedious.
Repair drones, for instance, move throughout a ship
and just outside, looking for and patching holes in the
ship’s hull, either remotely controlled or run by the
ship’s computer. They are a combination tool chest,
diagnostic engine, troubleshooting assistant, ship’s
computer interface and helping hand. These drones
are usually miniature grav vehicles interacting with
the ship’s gravity, although spider-like walker designs
also exist. Some drones even mimic humans or have
similar manipulators, to make use of existing tools
designed for human-like hands.

Belt mining is another task which frequently uses
drones. Laser drills are the most common mining
tool, notorious for shedding copious amounts of heat
in use. Planetoids are often not fully mapped, with
hidden gas pockets, voids and other unstable features
discovered during mining, sometimes explosively.
Between those and the danger of being in space, it
is much safer to operate a drone from aboard a ship
than to send crew outside with a laser drill. One crew
member can operate a swarm of drones, much like
conducting an orchestra.
Probe drones are familiar to most who have served on
a scout ship. They are miniature sensor packages that
deliver value by being somewhere the ship is not. This
can be for convenience, such as a drone monitoring
weather on one side of a world while the ship is busy
on the other or it can be for safety, dropping one into a
live volcano or sending it to investigate an unidentified
energy signal. To facilitate this, they are cheap and
disposable. A Suleiman’s workshop is capable of
manufacturing replacement probe drones if given
suitable raw materials.
Engineering robots are less common than virtual
crews or repair, mining or probe drones. They are
essentially repair drones upgraded with autonomous
diagnostic and problem-solving software, able to run
without constant direction from the ship’s computer
since one of their duties is to maintain and repair
said computer. Running with just one engineering
robot and no other mechanical talent on the crew is ill
advised as when something happens to that robot the
ship can quickly become stranded. Using two robots
to maintain and repair each other often fails in practice
as most units on the market have programs rather
than brains, so they lack a sophont’s ability to adapt to
unexpected circumstances.

The Computer
65

