ENSORS AND

S COMMUNICATIONS
In a poetic sense, sensors are the eyes and ears of
the starship. Just as a suddenly blinded and deafened
person must take care navigating safely, a ship without
sensors is vulnerable to the dangers of in-system
travel. For this reason, all but the most primitive or
damaged starships have a sensor package.
Certain built-in facilities on starships qualify as
‘sensors’, although they are not part of any sensor
package. A conspicuous one is a porthole or window,
by which any sophont with an eye can spot objects
sufficiently large or close. Another is the closed-circuit
security camera network, by which crew may monitor
every surface, corner, nook and cranny of the ship.
Yet another is the ‘weather’ sensor network attached
to various points along the hull, which are simple
monitors that give alerts when there is a problem with
air pressure, excessive wind speed, when the ship is
submerged, or if there is an unhealthy level of radiation.
Sensors analyse the physical state of a star system
and collate a huge amount of detail into intuitive
reporting, monitoring and alerting. Some sensors
catalogue the resource potentials of unknown worlds.
These form the backbone of an initial fly-through
survey of a system by the Scout Service. Others
can hunt out a pirate’s nest by looking for minute
anomalies on a planetoid’s surface. Still more can
estimate the complexity of a civilisation by measuring
the particulates in a world’s atmosphere.

THE TYRANNY OF DISTANCE

Naval battles fight at ranges of tens of thousands of
kilometres. Jump drives enter and exit a system at
hundreds of thousands of kilometres from a planetary
surface. The average distance from one world to
its nearest neighbour in a system may measure in
hundreds of millions of kilometres. Only artificial
senses, such as a ship’s sensors, can gather useful
data at these ranges.
Fortunately, space is empty. Dust and micrometeorites
are rarely significant enough to occlude signals,
especially within a star system. This means that it is
theoretically a simple matter to see whatever interesting
signal is out there if a big enough sensor is in line of

66

sight. Even large ship sensors usually cannot detect
individual ships at typical jump distances, although it is
a simple matter for most starports.
Instead, most ships can only detect the outline of a
sensor contact from a few million kilometres, which is
often the basic information needed to classify it as a
ship or not a ship. More detail requires getting much
closer. Naval weapons with longer ranges would find it
difficult to hit their targets, let alone confirm they were
firing at enemies.

ORTILLERY SHIPS

This does not include ortillery fired at planetary
targets with known locations. There exist ships
designed to jump in, send munitions at a world
and jump out before the planet can muster any
response, hoping that local defences do not
manage to detect and destroy the bombardment.
It does not include missiles, which circumvent
the problem by carrying their own sensors to use
when they move close to a target.

AUTOMATION AND ANALYSIS
This leads to one of the main problems for sensor
operators, often referred to as ‘sensops’. Most of the
time, sensors report the same thing minute-by-minute
for days on end. It is impossible for most sophonts
to give this data their full attention for six or eight
hour shifts but computers can handle this task easily.
However, computers can only report things a user tells
them to, while most of the interesting data from sensors
is interesting precisely because it is unanticipated.
Further driving automation is the sheer amount of data
coming in at any given second, even on a small ship
with only basic sensors. By analogy, optical sensors
such as eyeballs and retinal neurons allow sophonts to
input data from this book. The brain is able to handle
the input of these sensors and process it into usable

