FINE DETAIL

SHAPE & STRUCTURE

BASIC OUTLINE
information. Handling one additional set would require
some adjustment but might be doable. Handling 1,000
additional sets would be overwhelming.

When this fails, many overlook or do not report anomalies.
Studies conducted into how something so clear in
hindsight escaped notice rarely produce any satisfying
conclusion. After-action analysis usually proves timeconsuming and inconclusive, even when the sensop
took pains to have the algorithms explain why they made
the decisions they made. This assumes the missed
data did not lead to disaster – missing a hostile intent on
destroying the ship tends not to leave an intact enough
report to extract logs from.
When this succeeds, the invisible becomes visible.
Crews can make accurate predictions and safely act
upon them. This happens so often that people take it
for granted, which is a testament to how well and how
routinely sensors work.

APPROXIMATE JUMP LIMIT

HOW COMMUNICATORS WORK
One cannot simply shout across the vacuum of
space. Among other problems, the lack of air does
not conduct sound. To speak from one ship to another
or between ship and port, it is necessary to encode
communications in some other medium such as radio
and transmit it, relying on the recipient to be able to
receive and decode. In most cases aside from genuine
first contact, both sides will possess one or more
mutually understood mechanisms.
To explain radio communications simply, keep in mind
three basic components: Transmitters, receivers and
radio waves. This is the bare minimum needed to send
a signal. Advanced systems have other components but
we will first focus on these. Non-radio communicators,
such as laser or meson, work by similar principles.
Transmitters send out high frequency radio waves.
First, the information to be sent is turned into digital
data. In the case of computer data that is already
digital this is straightforward, while there are many
schemes for translating analogue signals such as
voice and pictures into digital forms. This data is
encoded into radio wave patterns by varying the phase,
amplitude or frequency. These variations are a code
that only a properly configured receiver can pick up
and understand. High frequency means sending more
waves in a given amount of time, thus being able to
send more data per unit time than a low frequency
signal. Changing the amplitude means making these

Sensors & Communications

From the sensop’s point of view, running sensors
means working in concert with machines, looking for
patterns and anomalies they cannot recognise within
far more data than the sensop can manually process.
Coming up with new algorithms and programming
them into the computer on the fly is part of the process.
There are libraries of time-tested algorithms one can
consult but there always seem to be new problems or
variations not handled by the existing code, although
some sensops are particularly talented at applying
existing patterns to new cases.

BASIC OUTLINE

67

