T

waves stronger or weaker, while altering the phase
means altering the timing of these waves relative to
some point in time, typically the start of a batch of data.

Sensors & Communications

Once encoded, the signal is transmitted via an
antenna. If transmitting the signal via radio, the
antenna is a piece of wire that runs an electric
potential back and forth to generate alternating electric
and magnetic fields. As the signal heads outward
from the antenna, the receiver picks up the signal
through its own antenna and decodes it back into data
a computer can use. Radio receivers have antennas
of specific lengths, in which alternating electric and
magnetic fields of the right frequencies will induce an
alternating electric potential, which the circuits of the
receiver act upon. Multiple transmitters can set up
overlapping fields which cancel out in most directions
but reinforce in another; this is called ‘beamforming’
or ‘beam steering’ when used to reinforce the signal
toward a specific recipient. Artificial gravity can create
small lens-like deformations in spacetime to reinforce
the signal in a specific direction or enhance signals
coming from a specific direction, a process known as
‘gravitic microlensing’.

68

Starships have both a transmitter and receiver to
communicate with other ships and worlds. The
transmitters will encode data for uplink to send it across
the expanse of space. Receivers then pick up the signal
and decode the data. In the case of radio, standard
practice is to have multiple antennas, some of which
are configured as transmitters and some as receivers,
switching how many are on each role depending on
how much the ship wishes to transmit. In the event of an
emergency, most starships have a clearly visible distress
signal button on the comms panel.
Encoding and decoding standards vary from region to
region. Typically, a given homeworld that reached TL5
prior to interstellar contact will have developed one
set of standards, that are then used by its colonies as
well as nearby homeworlds that were less than TL5
on first contact and had radio standards introduced to
them. One well-known example is the Imperial standard
emergency distress broadcasts, Mayday and S.O.S.
from Sol and Gashimeku Kaalariin, known as Signal
GK, from Vland. Signal GK was known throughout the
First Imperium but the Solomani signals were unknown
outside of Sol prior to Solomani discovery of jump
drive. These days, all three are recognised throughout
the Third Imperium and beyond, although they might
not all be known far from Imperial space.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Likewise, local transmission encoding standards are
known and widely distributed. This is widely useful
information that is free to distribute and has usually
had centuries to propagate so most communications
software is able to automatically detect and employ any
widely used standard in or near the sector of origin.
Someone crossing the Third Imperium all the way from
the Solomani Rim to the Spinward Marches might
occasionally need to download a software update, freely
available alongside map data from any Class A, B or C
starport. This is so prevalent and ingrained that any new
communications standard is not widely recognised until
these software updates are in distribution. Every world
within a sector’s radius that sees any traffic will have
the update within a year. Only the scouts, who have
specialised software to analyse and decrypt unknown
transmission protocols, should ever be in a situation
where local radio standards are initially unknown.
In some cases, the signal must go through other
components before reaching the correct receiver
to clarify, boost, or secure the transmission. Some
planets erect antenna towers separate from receivers
designed to maximise the strength of both sending and
receiving, to retransmit the signal so it can reach its
destination. A ship’s comms may be routed through an
orbital satellite network that will then direct the signal
toward the receiver they are trying to contact. It is rare
that its receiver absorbs the entire strength of a signal.
Any significant TL5 or higher civilisation creates a radio
‘footprint’ from unabsorbed portions of its broadcasts,
expanding out from the world. The farther away from
the primary signal, the longer it takes and the more
it distorts, until it finally disappears and becomes
indecipherable. It is quite common for a new colony in
a previously uninhabited system to be discovered a few
years after founding when its first broadcasts meant for
internal consumption cross the parsecs to settlements
in adjacent systems. This happens often enough that
new colonies that are serious about stealth will ban
radio transmissions outright.
Comms within a ship use the same principle on a much
smaller scale. Whether there are wall-mounted comms
in one area of the ship sending signals via wire instead
of through the air or if each of the crew has a radio on
their arm, their main purpose is to keep the crew in
constant communication.

ACTIVE AND PASSIVE SENSORS

Regardless of their operating principles, sensors split
into two types: Active or passive. Active sensors send out
signals – often referred to as a ‘ping’ – then try to detect
a return signal reflected from a target. Passive sensors

R

