do not send anything, as they detect signals emitted
from targets, potentially including active sensor pings or
reflected environmental signals such as sunlight.

some ships, especially military, this information will be
overlaid on viewports throughout the ship to give crew
better situational awareness.

Active sensors allow collection of more detailed
information about the ship’s surroundings but make
the ship more visible, where passive sensors are
quieter but do not allow as much information. Passive
scanners can track and range most objects near
a ship in space. However, the greater precision
that active sensors afford and the presence of
transponders render stealth useless. This means that
most ships run with active sensors.

JAMMER

COMMON SENSORS

SOUND SENSOR

Most starships install standard sensor suites. A
discerning ship’s captain might want to know what
each of those sensors does and any competent sensop
should already know.

RADAR AND LIDAR
Radar is an umbrella term for a large class of basic
tracking sensors. Radar – Radio Detection And Ranging
– projects focused radio pulses in sweeping scans of an
area and interprets the returned signals or echoes for
information about an object’s size, distance and speed.
Lidar is an optical version of radar. Many variants exist,
for optimised long range and ground penetration.

VISUAL SENSOR

The visual spectrum remains the predominant way to
display information from other sensors as all the data
in the world is useless if the crew cannot interpret it
easily, and vision is a primary sense for most known
species that build starships. As a result, although the
raw information is still available at a sensop’s console,
all of a ship’s sensor input typically collates into a single
visual display, with different sensors colour-coded. On

Another sensor group found on most ships is a set of
shielded microphones. While sound does not carry in
a vacuum, ships are often in enough of an atmosphere
to make it worth carrying, proving especially useful
in monitoring for would-be intruders while in port.
Advanced models are capable of identifying a variety of
sounds, referencing a vast database to discern whether
a rumble from a dormant volcano was a harmless
twitch or a sign of imminent eruption. Most models are
capable of acting as makeshift external speakers. Ship
captains have found many uses for this feature, from
threatening locals away from the hull to piping out a
preferred music playlist when relaxing outside.

NEUTRINO DETECTOR

A simple case filled with a transparent variety of
superdense, built around a specialised nuclear damper
field. Without the nuclear damper, this case would have to
be much larger, well beyond what a small ship can fit. The
speed of light through superdense is much slower than
the speed of light through vacuum, so neutrinos moving at
the latter speed are moving faster than the former. When
their course takes them through the box, this causes them
to emit Cherenkov radiation – typically blue light – by a
mechanism similar to sonic shock waves when objects
move through air faster than the local speed of sound.
Early TL versions use water or ice instead of superdense
but the speed of light through these is faster, although still
less than through vacuum, causing the light to be dimmer
and the system less accurate.
This system is crude next to what is in dedicated science
ships and facilities, often picking up cosmic rays and
other background radiation as interference, though it is
a reliable early warning system for solar flares. It detects
the presence of nearby stars as a backup for visual
confirmation, such as when coming out of jump in the
shadow of a large planet. It is not sensitive enough to
reliably detect power plants except at very close range.

Sensors & Communications

One piece of equipment seldom mentioned is the
scope. This is essentially a telescope, capable of
seeing objects very far away, with a multispectral
camera on the back end receiving light in wavelengths
from infrared through ultraviolet. There is often some
bias in the selection of frequencies, centred on
whatever the sensor’s builders or expected operators
consider their primary visual spectrum. Improved
gravitic lensing is one of the primary ways this gets
better at higher Tech Levels, until at TL14 it becomes
‘visor’ technology, being much better correcting
distortions that alter photons’ paths enroute from
detectable objects, which includes gravitic lensing.

The jammer directly affects sensors. By distorting
the ship’s emissions and scrambling active sensor
signals, it makes a ship harder to detect. As a result,
this muddles the ship’s location; others will know
that the ship is there but it will be harder to hit. Basic
jamming capability is available at TL10, while a
countermeasures suite is available at TL13, with an
improved version at TL15.

69

