T

DENSITOMETER
This passive gravitic sensor maps interior or subsurface
structures. The data only gives hints of structure and
the resolution is poor but it can indicate veins of ore,
metal deposits, caverns, gas deposits and so on. When
scanning ships it clearly distinguishes between dense
machinery and voids, such as staterooms and empty
cargo holds, although identifying specific contents is
trickier. The grav and mass sensors listed further on are
specialised forms of this sensor.

LIFE SCANNER

Certain animals and sophonts, as well as psionic
talents, have the ability to detect life at a short
distance. Called a life detector, it is a technological
analogue of that sense. It is an analysis suite, not
directly detecting ‘life’ but rather looking for subtle
patterns in infrared and signals that other sensors
gather, although there is little practical difference. It is
capable of differentiating and describing types of life in
range. This is popular with the Scout Service, who use
it to survey life on a world’s surface. Often mounted to
cutters utilised by station crews for rescue missions, it
can locate survivors on a stricken vessel as well as be
used for interdiction and inspection duties.

Sensors & Communications

COMMUNICATOR

70

Every ship has a communication suite budgeted as
part of the standard sensor package, which many
frequently take for granted. Comms have simple
operations, as the captain tells the computer to
open communications with a ship or starport and the
computer complies. Still, there are some nuances to
comms known to the best communication operators,
known as ‘commos’. Military communications suites
named ‘CommCasters’ can network a squadron’s
computers into a unified battle network, which enables
devastating concentrated firepower.
Below TL15, this is usually broadcast radio, occasionally
laser where wide broadcasts are not desirable. Wireless
gravitic connection, known as ‘gradio’, is like radio but
using gravitic pulses rather than electromagnetic. Gradio
is uncommon as a general-purpose communicator,
mainly because it requires carrying basic radio
technology anyway to speak to all starports that do not
have gradio. At TL15, meson technology becomes the
communicator of choice, especially for military ships,
although many still use radio for broadcasts. The meson
communicator’s ability to ignore planetary masses
and most forms of interference, not to mention being
impossible to intercept, gives fleet commanders better
command of their ships.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

These suites include transponders, which usually
must be on at all times unless a ship wishes to be
mistaken as hostile. Some systems allow captains to
turn these off when not near a starport to avoid pirates.
Recognised friendly military ships are always allowed
to turn off their transponders.
Countless individuals have attempted to hack their
transponders, found it more difficult than expected,
wound up wrecking it and attempted to blame random
damage. Authorities are so used to this that, absent
overwhelming evidence, they will assume deliberate
destruction to hide whatever the transponder would
have shown, which by itself is grounds to seize the ship
throughout the Third Imperium. Unless facing the death
penalty for actions the transponder would testify to,
attempting to falsify this is probably not worthwhile.
Upon ‘discovering’ that the transponder is ‘broken’ or the
ship suffers severe comms damage while near a world
with functioning traffic control, the legal path is as follows.
1. Improvise a signal output device out of whatever is
available. It does not have to be official, just enough
signal that the ship is visible and not a hazard to
navigation. Switching on any active sensor will meet
this requirement. Failure to do this will result in the
vessel being classified as a derelict and may legally be
claimed by whichever salvage crew reaches it first.
2. Proceed to the mainworld’s orbit at no more than 1G
while maintaining a sensor watch, eyeballs to windows
if nothing else. If another vessel enters visual range
and approaches, cut thrust immediately. When reaching
a highport before any other vessel draws near,
approach it and attempt to establish communications
but do not dock without permission.
3. Do NOT land. Attempting to land outside of a
downport when there is local traffic control to contact is
taken as evidence of smuggling. Landing at a downport
without permission may be a crime. Wait for a patrol
craft. Only attempt landing in an extreme life support
emergency or if given permission.
4. Expect the authorities to impound the vessel until
they can confirm its past itinerary, usually within two
to three weeks. Authorities will not detain the crew,
as they consider the ship enough of a hostage. Most
authorities quickly remove all the evidence they can
then allow repairs to take place, installing a new
transponder and restoring the ship to spaceworthiness.

R

