SPECIALISED AND EXOTIC SENSORS
TRANSPONDER MODES
Most transponders across Charted Space
can switch between active, passive and
covert modes, with military or otherwise
state-affiliated ones capable of full IFF mode.
The crew is never supposed to turn off
transponders without full IFF, although covert
mode is close enough for most purposes.
ACTIVE: An active transponder is always on and
sending out pings. While the other modes only
transmit directionally in response to the received
ping, active mode broadcasts omnidirectionally.
PASSIVE: A passive transponder does not send
out any pings but will respond if pinged. Many
starports responsible for traffic control will
routinely ping empty space, making this setting
less than useful for sneaking up on worlds.
COVERT: A covert transponder does not send
out any pings. It will only respond to pings with
authorised command codes; for ships with
Third Imperium compliant transponders, their
codes are known to Imperium warships and
licensed starports. It responds directionally,
so as not to give away the ship’s location to
pirates. Depending on how isolationist the local
world is, this may allow a ship to sneak past
local defence forces.

CHEMICAL ANALYSER

Sometimes called a ‘sniffer’, ‘multispectrometer’
or ‘multispec’, the analyser uses an array of small
spectrometers to quickly analyse the chemical profile
of whatever is right in front of it, most often a world’s
atmosphere. From this analysis, it can provide basic
information such as percentage of diatomic oxygen
molecules and the presence of trace contaminants.
Using this and other data, a sensop might be able to
determine if a world has biological hazards, chemical
corrosives or even a civilisation. It can also warn of
sudden shifts, such as if a ship is about to run into an
acid cloud. Higher TL versions extend how far forward
it can analyse to improve the quantity of data, along
with adding densitometers and other capabilities,
although even at TL15 this remains far shorter ranged
than the ship’s other sensors. These instruments are
notably poor at analysing solid materials beyond the
surface layer, unless obtaining samples and grinding
into dust for analysis. An analyser can measure trace
gases around a planetoid or even space. Hydrographic
versions exist, optimised to analyse oceans.

NEURAL ACTIVITY SENSOR

An advancement of the life scanner, this sensor can
detect neural activity. Although it is largely an analysis
suite, unlike the life sensor this does have some direct
sensing capability, using very sensitive electromagnetic
field detectors as well as direct psionic detectors. As
a survey sensor, it can tell a scout crew if a world has
creatures with brains and how advanced those brains are.
As a search and rescue sensor, it can inform users if and
where to find the injured and casualties. Certain marines
and pirates use it to locate crew on a ship they are about
to board, to take out all possible resistance. Some of
the most bloodthirsty pirates use it to aim their ship’s
weaponry, killing everyone on the ship before they board
to take their prize. As of TL15, this sensor is not advanced
enough to imitate advanced telepathy, fictional dramas
about using it as an interrogation device notwithstanding.

FIELD SENSOR
Some animals and sophonts have a sense
called awareness, which is the ability to see
electromagnetic fields. This sensor is its analogue,
multi-spectrum detectors sensitive to electric and
magnetic fields. In addition to being a backup for life
and neural activity sensors, crews use this sensor for

Sensors & Communications

FULL IFF: Full control of the transponder, with
facilities to automatically interrogate and respond
to allied ships’ transponders, no matter how it
is configured for civilian and enemy vessels. In
addition to just turning it off fully, vessels with
an IFF-capable transponder can set up false
identities. At extreme ranges where a pirate
ship’s sensors might only have a transponder
signal to go off of, this can disguise a 2,000 ton
frigate as a 200 ton merchant trader to ships with
lazy sensops. Full IFF is generally restricted to
naval vessels and accredited mercenaries but
is a standard feature on IISS vessels. This is
supposed to be removed prior to them being sent
on detached duty but is sometimes overlooked.

Beyond the standard packages are specialised and
exotic sensors. A ship’s captain might find these on
custom ships, special-purpose surveyors, military
reconnaissance vessels, or alien craft.

71

