T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SHIP-LENGTH BASELINE
surveys where electromagnetic fields might indicate
the presence of interesting things underground, such
as a soon-to-be volcano.

GRAV SENSOR

This device detects the gravity profile of objects at lightsecond distances. It is not effective for mapping internal
structures, although it can tell if something appears to
be unusually hollow or dense and sees occasional use
in prospecting. It can detect the use of gravitic drives
or jump entry and exit flashes; as such, military craft or
starports use it to detect ships trying to remain hidden.
It can detect if someone is intentionally modulating
their gravitics to send data using any known encoding
mechanism. Any grav vehicle engine, lifter plate or
manoeuvre drive is capable of transmitting as a byproduct of normal operation.

MASS SENSOR

This device measures the gravity profile of a planetary
object a ship is orbiting. Unlike the grav sensor,
it detects gravitic devices as large masses, often
confusing a gravitic object with a larger mass. To the
unskilled, a ship’s boat has a gravity profile that can
have the same mass signature as a large planetoid.
This sensor is typically included in survey sensor
packages and specialised survey drones, which rarely
encounter gravitic devices other than their host ship,
which can subtract this known quantity from the data.

Sensors & Communications

PROXIMETER

72

This close-range sensor detects objects near the hull
of the ship. It has two general uses, as an accurate,
close-up altimeter and as an alerting mechanism when
small threats such as asteroids or boarding parties
approach the ship. This is typically an analysis suite
tapping into visual, radar and other sensors, particularly
the mass sensor if present.

RADIATION SENSOR

This is an advanced version of the basic neutrino sensor,
which can detect a broad spectrum of fission, fusion and
antimatter by-products. It can pinpoint source locations
and level of hazard, even from orbital distances. Its
primary use is to locate operating power plants.

SENSOR EMPLACEMENTS
Sensors are usually distributed on the surface of the
hull, especially with civilian ships and typical sensor
suites. However, there are many options depending on
the ship’s intended use or need.

By distributing sensors across the hull, they form a
synthetic aperture array with a cross sectional area of the
entire ship. This is standard for most sensor packages,
as it is a simple way to gain a large detection area. On
average, there is only a 10-fold difference in maximum
dimension and thus maximum resolution between a
100 ton trading ship and a 100,000 ton freighter, without
specialised deployable sensor booms or fleets of drones
to act as a distributed sensor. These ship-wide units
are invariably arrays of identical detectors that, like the
portion of the jump drive distributed over the hull, can
be individually tested and replaced as needed. Even the
most basic sensors distributed over a 10 ton smallcraft
hull pull in a lot of data per second, more than a sophont
can process all at once.

DISH
Some survey vessels and recon ships use dishes to
collect sensor data. These take up volume and cost but
provide better data to the target sensor.

ANTENNA

Especially on large military vessels, ships can mount
huge antennae on the hull, typically in clusters. It is rare
to see this on small ships, as there is not enough area
to make it worthwhile. This is an option for sensors that
cannot integrate with the hull.

BAY

For those sensors which are simply too big to fit into
an antenna cluster but cannot be distributed over the
hull, there are sensor bays, outfitted specifically for one
highly tuned and powerful type of sensor.
Commonly referred to as ‘observatories’, bay-mounted
scopes greatly increase magnification and traverse.
These are the primary instruments of truly long-range
observation, some capable of observing other galaxies.
They can survey an entire star system minus any
parts temporarily occluded by celestial bodies and
are capable of seeing ships at much longer ranges
than a typical ship’s sensors. Nothing stops a ship
with enough spare tonnage from mounting its own
observatory but most see 100 tons as the minimum
necessary. Many compare observatories with a ship
designed around it to a military capital ship designed
around its spinal mount weapon.

R

