SENSOR EMPLACEMENTS – SULEIMAN SCOUT/COURIER

Antenna

Ship-length baseline

Drones

Deployable

Avionics

DEPLOYABLE

MISSILES

Missiles, armed or otherwise, typically have at
minimum rudimentary sensors for range-finding,
target-finding and object avoidance. The Scout Service
has specialised missiles which are all sensors and no
warhead, typically one-use probes.

DRONES

Better than missiles, the drone is an ideal, reusable
remote sensor platform. They can go into hazardous
places and conduct sensing without exposing the
crew to harm. Drones deployed over a wide area can
become a planetary satellite sensor network capable of
spotting targets anywhere in their system.

STARPORT AND
SYSTEMWIDE SENSORS
Woe betide the naive would-be smuggler who
believes that, just because their ship’s sensors have
limited range, starport sensors must be similarly
limited. Starport sensors have two advantages over
starship sensors.
First, size is no object. A starport can field the largest
sensors it can afford. This typically means it will affix all
sensors on antennas and dishes if it has the Credits.
Second, a host world offers the potential for very large
aperture synthesis, the ability to link sensors across
extreme ends of a planetary surface or orbit to form one
huge virtual sensor. This provides a massive advantage
in detecting, identifying and locking onto targets. As
it is composed of many smaller sensors, damage to
one piece of the compound unit merely degrades its
capability by a small percentage, while identifying the
location of a threat.
Theoretically, a set of sensors separated by long
distances can increase the resolution of scans. For
example, two installations set at opposite ends of a star
system could, in theory, yield a resolution of one metre
or better at 1,500 parsecs’ distance. The data at that
range would be thousands of years old but could identify
alien civilisations expanding toward Charted Space.

Sensors & Communications

Specially designed turrets or barbettes may be
deployable, with their own sensors for remote data
gathering or remote attacking. This covers both
extendible sensor booms, which make the ship a bigger
target and harder to manoeuvre, as well as detachable
mounts that are essentially drones whose docking
points consume a hardpoint. The main difference from
a generic drone is that detachable mounts usually
never leave the ship’s immediate vicinity, as the ship
powers and controls them using short-range tightbeam.
Both extendable and detachable mounts operate a
short distance from the ship, so some treat them as
various means to achieve the same effect.

Dish

73

