GRAVITICS
No matter their specialisation, all engineers aboard
a starship should be passingly familiar with the field
of gravitics. Much like electronics, gravitics can be
found in all facets of a modern interstellar spacecraft’s
operation, with applications ranging from propulsion
to life support and sensors to lifts. The introduction
of gravitics represents a paradigm shift similar to the
introduction of electronics; something that might not be
entirely surprising once one considers that both entail
the production, manipulation and exploitation of one of
the universe’s fundamental forces.
Those growing up on worlds of TL9 or higher find the
seemingly effortless hovering of g/cars and air/rafts
a familiar sight. It is easy to forget, having become
so accustomed to these machines, how miraculous
they seem to sophonts from low-tech worlds. In the
absence of gravitics, all means of flight are rather
laborious, be it air or space. To remain aloft, aircraft
require either constant forward power which their
wings translate to lift, some means of flotation, or
constant downward thrust.
In stark contrast, gravitics not only permit a craft to take
off and land vertically but also allow the vehicle to do
so without need for reaction mass. All that is required
is power for the drive and nearby mass to interact with.
This combination of operational flexibility, compact
nature and low operational costs have caused gravitics
to revolutionise space travel, dropping the cost of
transporting materials to less than a thousandth of what
was possible before its development.
Gravitics is widely deemed the first of the great inventions,
followed by nuclear dampers and then jump drives.
Historical records from every world that independently
developed rocketry prior to interstellar contact note
the complexity of rocket science, which tails off after
introducing gravitics. This stems from the fact that early
chemical-based reaction drives are barely capable of
achieving orbit around most worlds, needing a high
degree of precision engineering to make such systems
work. This fades from public consciousness once
easier alternatives such as gravitics become available.

74

GRAV PLATES
The basic component of all gravitic applications is the
gravitic module, a tiny device that can couple itself to
nearby gravity fields and, through them, apply force
against the mass generating the field. There are
many variations on the mechanism, although they all
exploit how gravity and energy work at extremely tiny
distances, as explained by the Consolidated Theory of
Gravity, or Lida Agidu Migekka in Vilani.
The most commonly encountered form of these gravitic
devices is the grav plate, an arrangement of a series of
grav modules as a flat or slightly curved array. A single
grav module, made up of millions of nanometres-wide
units, may be only several square micrometres and
one square metre might have billions of these modules.

TESTING GRAV PLATES
When purchasing replacement grav plates from
second-hand sources, a brief power-on test
to see them hover at 1G is not sufficient. The
proper way is to insist upon a power-on test
for a minimum of five minutes, then touching
the plate’s housing with a damp rag. If it can
output a consistent 1G for the entire test and
does not feel warm, it is acceptable, whereas
any significant warmth or wavering in output is
cause for rejection.
When grav plates degrade, they tend to do so in
patches; one grav module fails, causing increased
resistive heating which heats neighbouring
modules, causing them to degrade in turn. This
makes replacement of individual grav plates far
more feasible but does raise the question of what
to do with failed plates. Many manufacturers
offer a discount on new plates if turning in older
ones at the same time. However, reuse is entirely
possible. For example, there is a similarity to
the failure mode of grav plates and the resistive
heating used in commercial hot plates.

