Grav plates affect all mass within their operational
envelope, a roughly ellipsoid volume centred on
the plate, dimensions varying depending on design
constraints and power application.
Grav plates are, in spite of their mechanical simplicity,
complex devices to manufacture. Even with the
development of the Consolidated Theory of Gravity,
grav modules require very precise manufacturing
techniques normally developed at the end of TL8 or
early TL9 to exploit the quantised nature of gravity.
Arrayed and sealed into the final grav plate, they prove
to be a very reliable, robust solid-state device of simple
maintenance, in contrast to their difficult manufacture.
The production of grav plates is quite similar to that
of microprocessors. Even the best manufacturing
techniques are not perfect, especially when there are
billions of components per square metre to print. When
grav plates leave the factory, they are rated in a similar
method to processors based on observed performance
as compared to the theoretical maximum. Ones with
minimal failed units and low thermal output sell at a
premium, while those that generate more heat and less
gravity sell at a discount.

INTERNAL GRAVITICS
The most immediately noticed application of grav
plates is creating artificial gravity environments aboard
spacecraft or on worlds with weak surface gravities,
making long-term habitation by sophonts feasible
without the inconveniences and health risks of low
gravity or freefall. Conversely, they can generate a
gravity field of equal strength but opposite direction
to negate a world’s surface gravity, creating rooms or
vertical accesses where a person may move as if they
were in freefall. This is great for planet-based training
of spacers, to say nothing of recreational applications
at theme parks and other venues. Some leverage this
to actuate a lift platform with little of the infrastructure
mechanical lifts require.

Grav plates, however, cannot change their fields
arbitrarily without specialised modifications and
therefore are ill suited for dealing with sudden or violent
accelerations. Grav plates take a few seconds to ‘warm
up to speed’ when turned on or changing intensity, so
collisions, scrapes, weapon impacts and other such
surprises are all things the inertial dampers are too
ponderous to adequately deal with, whereas planned
accelerations are easily handled. For this reason,
grav plates are rarely set up to accommodate more
acceleration than the spacecraft’s manoeuvre drive can
generate, though this can cause problems with craft
that utilise auxiliary reaction drives for additional thrust.

LIFTERS

Beyond their basic applications in life support, the
second most commonly encountered form of gravitics
is the lifter. Lifters have often been called ‘grav plates
with their polarity reversed’, which, while not technical
language, is an acceptable summation of how low
power, early lifters work.
It is a common misconception among many lay sophonts
that gravity drives such as lifters, g-drives, and m-drives
are ‘inertialess’ and so they violate Agaashir’s Law of
Reciprocal Motion or, among the Solomani, Newton’s
Third Law of Motion. This is incorrect; they very much
do obey conservation of momentum. It is by pushing
against the ground that they generate lift.
As solid-state machinery, lifters have no moving parts
but there are noticeable cues that they are in operation.
Lower-tech lifters make a characteristic low-volume,
high-pitched, faintly perceptible whine as the individual
grav modules flick on-and-off at a high frequency. An
always-present sign of lifter operation is a soft but
persistent breeze emanating from beneath the vehicle,
akin to a downward thrust far too gentle to lift the vehicle.
This effect explains the strange sensation when putting

Gravitics

Gravitic physics leads to a consequence, that of lumpy
gravity. Grav plates have an ellipsoid area of effect.
Except for Droyne vessels, most ships are not made
out of half-ellipsoid rooms, so grav plates tend to
have overlapping fields. This is mitigated during ship
design by using either large overlapping grav plates
with uneven application of power or many low-power
overlapping plates to ensure 0.9-1.1 G everywhere
within a vessel. Some pleasure craft and liners go so far
as to use centrally-generated gravity or one large grav
plate underlying the entire floor for an even gravity field,
but this tends to be expensive and difficult to repair.

An equally important use for these basic grav plates
is inertial compensation; by having three sets of grav
plates arranged orthogonally, it is possible to combine
their pulls in any direction within their area of operation.
If a vehicle equipped with such a setup is aware it will
suffer an acceleration, the compensators can create an
equal and opposite acceleration inside it, ‘cancelling’ its
apparent effects for those aboard. Certain manoeuvre
drives and lifters link into oversized grav plates
designed to accelerate every atom of the ship and its
contents equally to reduce or eliminate felt acceleration.
However, the usual approach is to accelerate the hull,
lifter, or drive unit rigidly connected to the hull. This
brings along its contents, similar to reaction drives.

75

