T

a hand or equivalent under a lifter in operation, for as
it enters the field, it suddenly feels slightly heavier, as
if wearing a lightly weighted glove. That is because the
hand is being pushed against, helping the lifter stay aloft.
Lifters work in concert with landing gear when
performing wilderness landings on uncertain terrain.
The ship slowly sets down, putting more weight on the
landing gear until either the lifters shut off or the ground
gives way. If this happens, the lifters reengage to
keep the ship from getting stuck, which can either find
another landing spot or hover in place.

Gravitics

There are many videos of ships using lifters to fly low
to the ground, conducting wilderness deployments and
recoveries of ground vehicles or low-flying grav vehicles
without being on the ground. In some cases, this is
done for mobility, with the pilot intending to be close to
the ground for as few seconds as possible. Others do it
for legality as the ship has permission to fly but suffers
consequences should it touch down. Operationally these
cases look very similar, except that the former more
often involves either actual exchange of weapons fire or
weapons moving into position to fire on the ship.

76

Lifters are very useful for efficient, frictionless
movement close to the ground but are not the
speediest mode of transportation. Similar to helicopters,
their main form of attaining translational motion is by
inclining the angle at which the force keeping them
airborne is applied. In low-tech lifters, this is done by
physically rotating the lifter plate assembly, whereas
in a more sophisticated lifter’s case it can be done by
correctly timing the activation of the grav modules that
make up the plate, using beamforming techniques
to tilt the angle of the resulting gravity field relative
to the surface. By doing this, basic lifter craft can
achieve reasonable speeds on a standard atmosphere
world. Going faster requires adding further propulsion
systems, which are more concerned with forward
velocity than keeping the vehicle off the ground. Most
lifters, especially low-tech ones, operate in a low
altitude regime of between half a metre off the ground
for ‘ground’ vehicles and 50 metres for ‘air’ vehicles, but
most lifters can in theory reach low orbital altitudes.
‘Can’ does not mean ‘should’. Riding in unsealed
vehicles without a vacc suit has clear dangers of rising
into too thin air. Even with vacuum-rated equipment,
there are other concerns. Hovering at orbital altitudes
is distinct from being in orbit as the latter is more
about achieving orbital speeds than pure altitude.
Being almost stationary in such an environment can
result in a severe admonishment from local traffic

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

control at best or, at worst, colliding with something
moving at orbital velocity and being turned into a
rapidly expanding cloud of debris. Unless coordinating
with local traffic control or being around a world with
no enforced traffic control, most consider it ‘being a
traffic hazard’ and penalise accordingly.
As a lifter vehicle climbs in altitude, it needs to increase
its operational envelope size so that it encompasses
enough mass to keep it aloft. In doing so, it increases
its power expenditure; the bigger the envelope, the
more power it draws to keep operational. To deal with
this increased draw, the lifter can decrease the strength
of its generated gravity field but that generates less
lifting power for a given field size.
Larger power supplies, lifters manufactured from
higher-efficiency grav modules and optimised field
geometries can all increase the altitude a lifter vehicle
can attain but even an idealised, perfectly efficient lifter
will inevitably reach a maximum operational altitude
of roughly one planetary diameter. Worlds with dense
atmospheres have more available mass to push
against beyond the surface, so they allow for a slightly
higher operational ceiling; worlds with thin atmospheres
allow slightly lower. Beyond this point, a lifter simply
cannot generate enough lift to keep itself aloft.
On any modern starship designed for planetary
landings, lifters are included in the hull, much like
landing gear. Normally integrated into the ventral hull,
they are sometimes co-located with the landing gear
bays but more often spread among the ventral surface.
These lifter plates provide redundancy and a degree
of fine control to allow the vessel to take off and land
vertically with minimal difficulty, as well as to hover at
any desired altitude.
Naturally, there have been many ‘creative’
applications of lifters over the years. One wellknown example is to use lifters to ‘stick’ a ship to the
ground. A favourite of the Imperial Interstellar Scout
Service for dealing with hurricanes and other highspeed winds, landed scout ships will often activate
their lifters with a reversed polarity, attracting rather
than repelling the ground. In doing so, the scout ship
more firmly presses itself against the ground and it
becomes harder for strong gales to blow away the
ship. This even works to ‘land’ under an overhang
when touching the ground would be hazardous. This
technique depends on the exact makeup of said
ground, not working well on sandy or sooty terrain
and better suited for solid rock. Starships fare better
landing on concrete, metal or other solid surfaces.

R

