Bracing

Thruster plate

MANOEUVRE DRIVE

Power
distributor
system

Thrust control
module

Cooling
systems

As with any auxiliary propulsion system, starships flying
solely under lifter power are rather ponderous, most
reaching top effective speeds of about 25 kilometres
per hour, which is not ideal for rapid transportation but
sufficient for moving around a starport. Lifters are ideal
for moving things easily and cheaply but in no particular
hurry from place-to-place. For longer-range travel,
particularly to cross the vast distances of space, a ship
needs a larger system such as manoeuvre drives.

MANOEUVRE DRIVES

At any busy starport, one can watch as ships prepare
to take off and head towards the planet’s jump limit.
One will most likely see a vessel gently hover up a
few metres into the air before it starts to accelerate
onwards through the outbound flight corridor, the glow
of its engines shrinking as it climbs up the atmosphere.

The advent of manoeuvre drives is the point where the
prospect of true space travel turns from a tantalising
dream into a practical and, more importantly,

Entering a spacecraft’s engine room, the first major
difference one will note between a manoeuvre drive
and a lifter is its bulk. M-drives are visibly larger
than a lifter of equivalent output. A manoeuvre drive
has significant length, width and depth, comprising
multiple thruster plates, a thrust control module,
coolers for both, a power distributor system, as well
as the appropriate bracing and structural elements.
The first four are often arranged in an approximate
cylindrical configuration and sealed inside a housing
containing an inert atmosphere under normal
operation, unlike lifters or grav plates.
The thruster plate consists of multiple layered grav
module arrays. This allows significantly more force
than lifters can exert at the cost of more power usage,
generating significant amounts of waste heat which the
system must remove to prevent drive degradation.
The coolers are packed conformal to the thruster plate
and thrust control module. Grav modules fresh from the
factory and earmarked for manoeuvre drives are almost
100% efficient devices and do not generate appreciable
amounts of heat. Modules with lower efficiency
frequently become lifter or grav plates. However,
continual use will degrade the thruster plate, made
worse by the relatively high power consumption. Thus,
heavily used thruster plates run hot and risk a cascade

Gravitics

This scene, common to those accustomed to space
travel, is only possible thanks to the manoeuvre drive,
commonly abbreviated ‘m-drive’. In the smallest of star
systems, such as those around M type main sequence
stars, planets are still many millions of kilometres
from one another at best. Even with modern HEPlaR
reaction drives – see page 96 – limited burn endurance
makes travel via reaction drive a long and complicated
affair, requiring finely plotted and executed courses to
make the most of their propellant.

economical reality. Another product of gravitic
technology, manoeuvre drives are sometimes termed
‘souped-up lifters’, a moniker that is only superficially
correct. In truth, they are different beasts in both
construction and operation.

77

