T

R

A

Gravitics

E

L

L

E

failure under high output. Active cooling minimises this
degradation, extends the useful lifespan of thruster
plates and prevents one plate’s cascade failure from
taking out other plates.

Extremely specialised craft can forego the thrust
control module entirely by gimballing the thruster plate,
transforming the plate into an oversized thrust control
module. This allows greater manoeuvrability at the cost
of additional volume taken up by the gimballing system,
which will not fit inside most standard engineering spaces.

The thrust control module is a smaller set of a series
of grav modules individually gimballed to allow three
directions of freedom. This gimbal must transfer
high variable-directional thrust loads to the ship’s
frame and as such is the most mechanically complex
portion of m-drives, as well as the only non-solidstate component. It is usually sized to provide up to
10% of primary output alone but is intended to ‘warp’
the thruster plate’s output, allowing the main drive
to provide off-axis thrust. This combination is less
efficient at roughly one minus the sine of half the
angle, dropping to just over one-quarter of normal
thrust at 90o and zero at 180o. When needing thrust
far beyond 90o, such as reverse thrust, deactivate the
thruster plate and the thrust control module’s 10%
provides enough thrust.

Manoeuvre drives usually mount at the aft of a ship, as
ships use sideways thrust more often to adjust a ship’s
attitude than to laterally accelerate the ship. Even on
a single drive, the thrust control module can apply
thrust off-axis to apply torque to the ship. A few mount
manoeuvre drives on the sides, typically for increased
agility at some expense of maximum thrust. Mounting
to fore rarely provides any advantages and is much
more visible. Internal mounting to muffle the glow is
possible but its ionisation emissions still need to be
routed outside the ship, making the drive less efficient.
Rarely do engineers mount the drive precisely at the
centre of mass, as the ship will need a secondary thrust
control module to allow paired off-axis thrust.

SULEIMAN M-DRIVES

78

V

R

