Despite only being able to apply maximum thrust in
a narrow cone directly behind it, thrust vectoring is
one of the manoeuvre drive’s most useful attributes,
as it allows a single drive to control not only lateral
translation but also the attitude of the craft. By
mounting two manoeuvre drives and vectoring them
independently, a ship can control its pitch, roll and
yaw. If only mounting one manoeuvre drive it will allow
different thrust vectors in the same plate, resulting in
lower agility due to a shorter moment arm.
This thrust vectoring, being core to proper control of a
spacecraft, is one of the chief duties of a spacecraft’s
avionics. Translating a command from the pilot in the
form of a joystick tilting, a sound or a neural impulse
into the direction and strength of an m-drive’s thrust is
far from trivial. This is complicated further by a need
for balancing; although many mount m-drives so their
combined thrust axis acts through the spacecraft’s

HIGH GRAVITY WORLDS
A ship can use manoeuvre drives and lifters
together. This is more common when taking off
from high gravity worlds.
A ship with manoeuvre drives rated to provide
1G of thrust would usually have lifters rated
the same. When landing on a 1.25G world,
the manoeuvre drive may angle its thrust
downward, providing 25% thrust – 0.25G –
which adds to the lifters’ 1G to counteract the
world’s gravity. Lifters can be ‘overcharged’
for several minutes, long enough to move far
enough from a planet that the manoeuvre drive
alone can take over, although this risks burning
lifters out if done for too long at a stretch.

The directional nature of the m-drive’s thrust is the
reason why most starships intended for planetary
landings include lifters. The drop-off in thrust when
attempting vertical take-offs or landings would make
it so that few civilian ships would have enough thrust
to lift off the ground. Additionally, while the m-drive is
always mounted along the ship’s thrust axis, it is rarely
mounted in the exact centre of mass, which renders
many ships unable to reliably hover using the m-drive
alone. Lifters are placed to facilitate hovering, liftoff
and landing. In situations like these, lifters allow a
starship to move off the ground without flipping over
and either speed up enough to generate sufficient lift
for flight or, in the case of non-streamlined designs,
brute force their way into space. This is why spacecraft
flip 180o when reaching the mid-point of their journeys
as while they could apply thrust in any direction, the
drastically reduced output makes it that reorienting the
ship remains the most efficient and quickest way to
complete a journey.
Thruster plates couple to any mass within range, a
spherical radius proportional to the object’s mass
and size such that larger objects can be reacted with
from longer distances. Consequently, if an object
is within operational range of a thruster plate, it will
be pushed against and help accelerate the plate. In
star systems, the star or stars are the main objects
the drive pushes against but if outside their range,
the interplanetary medium can also be used, albeit
with very low efficiency as the drive struggles to
‘grab’ onto it due to its diffuse nature. The effect is
even worse with the interstellar medium – without
expensive, power-hungry modifications of no use to
most ships, manoeuvre drives are ineffective when
far from any significant mass that would attract a
useful density of particles.
M-drives produce visible ionisation effects when in
operation, the colour and pattern depending on exact
details of manufacture, while brightness depends on
thrust used. It is possible to identify the exact model
of a drive based on the spectra of its emissions,
so disguising this is another reason why pirates
sometimes rig lights around their drives. When ships
from a wide array of manufacturers gather a rainbow
of colours coming from manoeuvre drives can be
seen. Shades of blue are the most common for ships
made in the Third Imperium, thus the infrequently used

Gravitics

Ships with drives rated for 1G can use this trick to
take off from worlds up to just short of 1.5Gs, with
increasingly precise angling needed to counteract
higher gravities. The planetary Size code A
denotes the largest worlds generally deemed
habitable, with a maximum just short of 1.5 Gs.
This is not a coincidence, although the long term
effects of high gravity on unaccustomed sophonts
is a consideration. If the ship only has 1G of
thrust, avoid landing on worlds with Size code B
or higher unless there is good reason to believe
that ship can take back off again.

centre of mass, they can change this by the fullness
of the cargo hold or fuel tanks and location of those
on board. Accounting for this and adjusting the drives
to compensate is one of the most computer-intensive
processes that a ship’s avionics must account for.

79

