T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

ANIMAL SAFARI SHIP - SHIP THRUSTS

Ship thrust
M-Drive
position

GRAV VEHICLES

Gravitics

There exist lesser forms of manoeuvre drives,
such as grav vehicle engines. As far as starship
crews are concerned, these can be considered
less powerful, less expensive manoeuvre drives
that operate closer to gravity sources. On
large ships that carry many grav vehicles and
engineers, it is common for junior manoeuvre
drive engineers to maintain and repair the
grav vehicle engines, as they have fewer parts
and less that can go wrong. Certain relatively
powerful grav vehicle engines, capable for use in
going from a world’s surface to orbit and even its
moons, are known as ‘gravitic drives’.

80

Manoeuvre drives being far more powerful and
far more expensive than grav vehicle engines, it
should come as no surprise that they outperform
grav vehicles. Even a basic 1G m-drive is faster
than all but the fastest g/racers in Charted Space,
although not necessarily more agile. Those who
forget how much more expensive ships are than
grav vehicles can sometimes be reminded of the
difference in performance. This causes no end
of nightmares for planetary defence forces using
grav vehicles to intercept smugglers and is one of
the chief reasons why system defence boats exist.

slang ‘blue rainbow’ for the backside of an Imperial
Navy fleet. When a noble or planetary ruler says, ‘not
until I see the blue rainbow,’ they are demanding the
departure of whatever navy ships are present. Even
within regions that rely on different material sources
for their m-drives, resulting in different spectra,
manufacturers may seed other elements or rig lights
so their drives seem more Imperial. This is not unique
to the Third Imperium, as some Vargr insist on having
a different colour for each thruster plate, while some
Aslan engineers see anything other than yellow as a
sign of an underpowered drive.
Low-TL sophonts seeing a spacecraft for the first time
often mistake this glow for the exhaust of a reaction
engine. For crew who often visit low-TL worlds and
interact with the locals, it may be a good idea to
memorise a brief explanation of the difference they
can recite every time someone asks. Given the danger
from the ionisation effects’ heat, these sophonts have
one important detail correct – do not stand directly
behind an m-drive in operation.

INTERSTELLAR MANOEUVRE DRIVES
There have been attempts to optimise and use
manoeuvre drives for interstellar flight, most often for
colony ships without jump drives. The chief limitation
historically is fuel, which seems counterintuitive on
first glance as the main point of manoeuvre drives is
freedom from fuel limitations.

R

