To have manoeuvre drives but not jump drives implies
TL9, so fusion power is available but not as efficient
as at later TLs. Ships are often designed with four
weeks’ worth of power plant fuel. TL9 means 1G thrust;
even if there were no time dilation as one approaches
the speed of light, it would take several months to
accelerate to that velocity. Being unable to reach light
speed, a ship would take a minimum of a few years to
cross just one parsec.
The most common solution is to reach some small
fraction of light speed then drift, either using ramscoops
to glean fuel from the interstellar medium or scanning for
and grabbing occasional rogue icy bodies on the way to
keep life support going. To do this, the crew must reserve
enough fuel to power a months-long deceleration into a
passing star system to scavenge for water if not enough
fuel was found or to decelerate into the destination star
system. Few of these efforts reach their destination within
the lifetimes of those who built the ships.
This has proved an expensive and risky approach, so
a civilisation almost never attempts it once contacted
by interstellar society and it gains access to jump
drives; by the time the Third Imperium learns of such
an effort, there are only historical records of it. Some
have attempted this even with jump drives available, to
traverse regions of space that starships struggle with
for a lack of places to refuel a jump drive but it generally
proves more viable to set up ‘jump bridges’, stations in
interstellar space that ships can jump to and refuel at.

TRACTOR/PRESSORS

Tractor/pressors are rarely present on a ship without
a specific purpose. Certain patrol and pirate ships
famously use them to secure targets for boarding.

Small, short-ranged tractor beams, ‘microtractors’ or
‘microgravitics’ when speaking generally, have a range
of everyday applications. Belters use small, short-range
tractors to pull in ore chunks they blast loose from
planetoids. High TL medikits come with a handheld
unit that allows a doctor to manipulate internal organs
without breaching the skin, paired with sensors that
allow the doctor to see inside. At even smaller scales,
some high TL cleaning tools and robots employ
microtractors to sweep up dust.
Micropressors have found particular application when
employed in rings or spheres to squeeze things,
known as ‘gravitic focusing’. This is a critical enabler of
portable fusion power, being the primary way to keep
plasma contained. Plasma, fusion and meson guns
use this to cram their destructive payloads into narrow
beams. Meson communicators do likewise, although
more for power efficiency than to damage their target.

GRAVITIC SIGNALS

Just as it is possible to transmit radio at low enough
power to not cause an electromagnetic pulse, gravity
waves can be generated at low enough power that they
cause no significant motion but instead solely transmit
data. Called ‘wireless gravitic connection’, gradio is
the more commonly used name. While any functioning
grav vehicle engine, lifter plate or manoeuvre drive
is capable of sending gravitational pulses, encoding
signals into tiny fluctuations in these pulses or detecting
them requires a higher TL.
A more widespread form of gravitic signal
manipulation is gravitic lensing. A strong point source
of gravity bends spacetime around it which can focus
a diverging laser or radio beam into something that
disperses much less, which has applications for both
weapons and communications.

Gravitics

Manoeuvre drives and their cousins spread
their reaction over a large volume of effect. With
beamforming, gravity waves can be focused to impose
significant force on an object, although there is always
a maximum effective range. When used to pull an
object this is a ‘tractor’. When used to push an object
this is a ‘pressor’ or ‘repulsor’. Fundamentally, this is
the same system, although lower TL versions are only
able to act in one of the modes.

Less well known but more widely employed are rescue
ships, whether in space or to pluck people out of
hazardous situations on a world’s surface. Some use
these systems to assist with boarding and loading while
at untrusted landing sites, keeping their ship far enough
from the ground to make getting aboard difficult without
assistance from the ship or some means of flight.

81

