JUMP DRIVES
Although other means of faster-than-light travel have
been theorised, mostly by speculative fiction authors
and breathless scientists hoping for significant research
grants, the jump drive remains the sole means by
which starships can traverse the distances between
stars within any reasonable length of time. From the
weeklong transit to the 100-diameter limit, the jump
drive and its operational principles have shaped
interstellar society for millennia. As such, even crew
uninvolved with the jump drive’s operation should
have a basic familiarity with them and their operation,
including crew aboard non-starships.

THE BASICS OF JUMPSPACE

Despite differences in their construction, all jump drives
are beholden to the laws of jumpspace. Even after
millennia of use, scientists do not fully understand
jumpspace, largely due to the difficulties of running
experiments on something that renders all it touches into
subatomic particles and energy. Much of the existing
data on it comes from the work of the Jumpspace
Institute on HRD/Vincennes and its predecessors,
although other polities outside of the Third Imperium
maintain their own research institutes. In spite of their
efforts, models of jumpspace created using this data are
incomplete – we know how it behaves but the why of it
eludes us. However, from these models we can glean
some basic operational principles of jumpspace and how
best to avoid its wrath.

JUMPSPACE

Many believe jumpspace comprises the ‘bulk’ in
which our universe is embedded. A common, if trite,
analogy is of viewing our universe as a 2D sheet in
a 3D space, with jumpspace all that is above and
below it. It is unclear whether jumpspace is part of
our universe, another universe, a series of universes
parallel to our own, or something external to our
universe altogether. This uncertainty gives rise to
different nomenclatures denoting the reality in which
we live, with the most common being ‘realspace’.
Critics regard this term as a misnomer, pointing out
that jumpspace is very much as real as the space in
which we live, irrespective of how alien it might be.
This book uses the term because it is how most of
our audience already refers to it.

82

COREWARD WAVE
There are a few spacer’s tales of someone to
coreward jumping through some sort of massive
energy wave. They encountered blue sparkles
in jumpspace at about the time they would have
passed through the wave, with the duration
roughly equal to how long it would have taken
to pass through the wave, had their position
in jumpspace corresponded to their realspace
position. If these tales are true then there is or
once was some sort of curious phenomena,
potentially useful for navigation within its region,
somewhere in that direction. Unfortunately for
would-be researchers, this is far from the Third
Imperium’s borders, either deep within the Vargr
Extents or entirely beyond them.

When performing a jump, ships translate from the
‘surface’ of realspace to a certain ‘height’ in jumpspace,
called the jumpspace level. Studies prove jumps of
different distances correlate to different levels, with
the longer the jump in realspace the deeper a depth
travelled through jumpspace. No other correlation is
found between realspace and jumpspace, and studies
suggest that scientists will not ascertain any. When
jumping, a ship is removed altogether from realspace,
such that the concepts of its ‘position’ and ‘speed’
are meaningless for the duration, until reemergence.
It is possible that the ship might have position and
speed within jumpspace but these do not map to
realspace equivalents and there are no perceptible
external reference points within jumpspace, making
determination of location and velocity impossible.

MISJUMPS

Throughout Charted Space, many thousands of
jumps take place every day without incident. Despite
the concerns of a few paranoid souls who find the
strange nature of jumpspace abhorrent and refuse to
step aboard a ship that ventured into jumpspace, let

