alone enter themselves, the jump drive has proven
a reliable technology in use for over ten millennia.
It is entirely possible to live, work and die aboard
a starship without ever encountering unexpected
behaviour. However, there are always exceptions.
Called misjumps, these are a constant risk for starship
crews, one that any captain wishing to keep their ship
and crew intact will make great efforts to avoid. These
efforts are mostly successful; the vast majority of
misjumps are due to faulty equipment, unrefined fuel,
early jumps or operator error.
Nonetheless, it is occasionally possible for even the
best-maintained ship with the finest crew to suffer
from the capricious whims of jumpspace. A crew’s
helplessness makes misjumps worse, as when one
strikes there is little recourse but to glare at the
astrogator and hope for a safe emergence.

TIME CONSTANT
All these properties stem from perhaps the strangest
characteristic of jumpspace: Constant time. In
realspace, the speed of light ‘c’ is a constant that
governs all motion. As one approaches c, it becomes
increasingly harder to accelerate further. In jumpspace,
time governs motion, not speed. In stark contrast to
the speed of light, the more one diverges from this
time constant the harder it becomes to diverge further.
As speed equals distance over time, by making time
constant and unbinding speed, both it and distance can
be freely varied under the relationship ‘distance over
speed equals time’, allowing arbitrarily high speeds far
beyond c in order to satisfy it.

SPEED = DISTANCE/TIME
TIME = DISTANCE/SPEED

While purposefully minimising the time in jump might
seem like an appealing idea, deviations from the ideal
time not only show a correlation to scatter from the

JUMP DRIVE OPERATION

In spite of the jump drive’s ubiquity, the exact principles
and rules that jumpspace operates under remain poorly
understood. Although there are countless theories, all
most crew need to know is what the jump drive does,
not why or how. The complexities of astrogation and
fine details of the structure of the jump drive one can
find in detail in other literature, although this book
attempts to cover the broad strokes.
As any astrogator will tell you, no two jumps are the
same. The crew should remove from duty any astrogator
who tries to repeat the exact same process for a new
jump as a previous jump, believing that because it
worked once it will work again. Nonetheless, any given
jump can be broken down into five broad steps:
● TRANSIT – The journey to the 100-diameter limit,
allowing a safe jump entry.
● PLOTTING – The planning and creation of a viable
jump plot to take a starship from origin to destination.
● INITIATION – Jump field creation and entry into
jumpspace.
● TRAVEL – The time spent within jumpspace on the
way to the destination.
● EMERGENCE – Exit from jumpspace.
In an environment with as many unknowns as
jumpspace, it should come as no surprise that there
is no end of superstition and tradition associated
with starships. Many Vilani practice jump dimming to
maximise the available power even on ships with ample
power, making jump dimming technically unnecessary.
The Aslan will often light a candle in the ship’s shrine
or knock on a viewport before jump initiation, symbolic
versions of announcing their entrance. The Droyne
place gold coyns below the bolts that hold a jump drive
to the floor, whereas traditionalist Vargr beat the first
crew member to come aboard. Some Solomani believe
any ship that has not had a bottle of Terran champagne
broken across the hull to be bad luck and so on. There
may be as many traditions as there are starships in
existence. While these do not appear to affect operation
of the jump drive itself, a starship’s crew can see
requests to skip them as an indiscretion at best, actively
tempting fate at worst. As always with culturally sensitive
topics, get to know the crew well enough to judge their
probable reaction before making this suggestion.

Jump Drives

This rather strange property of a ‘time constant’ makes
jumpspace utterly hostile to matter. The physics we
know cannot take place under the rules of this foreign
space. In order to survive it, jumping ships detach a
small pocket of realspace, bringing it with them as they
enter jumpspace, as a jump field. Beyond protecting the
starship from nonexistence, the jump field establishes
the relationship between time in jumpspace and
realspace. While we cannot measure the passage of
time in jumpspace, if such a concept is even meaningful,
the ‘time constant’ as observed from within the jump field
is ascertained to be approximately 168 hours.

desired realspace target point but are directly related
to the odds of misjump and thus to be avoided. This is
not to say it cannot be done, just not recommended.
Keeping it to one week helps avoid misjumps,
which when not simply disastrous are far more timeconsuming than the hours this technique can save.

83

