T

Jump Drives

TRANSIT TO THE 100D LIMIT

84

Jump drives are incredibly sensitive to local gravity
fields and the rate of misjumps skyrockets when near
astronomical bodies or even other ships. As a result,
common practice found the 100D limit, which is a star’s
or planet’s diameter multiplied by 100. This creates a
sphere known as the ‘jump limit’. Many students new to
jump theory assume it should be the mass that matters,
such that a denser planet should have a larger jump
limit than a less dense planet of the same volume.
While this is somewhat the case, volume is the primary
determinant for cases that most starships encounter.
A jump could be attempted within the 100D limit but
the risk of misjump goes up, to the point that anything
less than the 10D limit from a gravity source is almost
impossible. Few starship crews have done so and lived
to tell the tale, none without a catastrophic misjump.
Exiting a jump within the 100D limit is impossible, a
forbidden zone sometimes called a ‘jump shadow’ and
practically unreachable without in-system travel.
The first physical stage of jumping requires the ship
to move past the 100D limit to minimise chances of
misjumping. The 100D limit of some stars stretch
beyond the 100D limit of their mainworld, forcing ships
leaving that world to travel longer for a safe jump.
In particularly crowded systems, a crew may also
need to consider the 100D limit of local ships. For
example, a 500,000 ton Tigress is roughly 250 metres
in diameter, giving it a 100D limit of 25 kilometres.
A Suleiman within this limit would risk a misjump,

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

although its own much smaller 100D limit – about four
kilometres – would not impact the Tigress in the same
way as only jump shadows of larger objects interfere
with jump entry or exit, fortunately for astrogators. If
an object has a non-spherical shape, as with most
starships, its ‘diameter’ for this purpose is taken as the
object’s longest dimension, mostly out of caution.
Anxious or rushed captains may ask to jump before the
100D limit, believing the risk of misjump to be negligible
to leaving the world in a hurry. Inform the astrogator
immediately of any necessary changes to the course
and jump of the ship. Otherwise, spending a bit more
time in transit to the 100D limit is the best option
to make sure the crew’s particles are not scattered
throughout jumpspace.
An important fact about jump limits and anti-jump
weaponry is that they only prevent safe jumps, not
jumps in general. A target ship can choose to override
warnings and engage its jump drive in a planetside
docking bay, low orbit or within a jump damper field
and will vanish as normal. The chances of this misjump
being survivable are almost zero. Even if it is, scatter
will likely throw the victim into an empty parsec. If
facing what they believe is certain death or a fate worse
than death, some captains and crews will choose this
as it beats the alternative and death by jump-fieldinduced disintegration is generally believed to be swift
and painless. This encourages pirates to be less violent

R

