in attacks to avoid getting a reputation as savage
bloodthirsty killers; pirates are not paid for cargo they
do not take. Slavers have it harder.
To prevent a ship from jumping for whatever reason,
the only ways to do so are to drain the fuel, disable
the power, or punch a hole through the jump drive.
The most common way to do such is through
insertion of a saboteur at port. Other methods are
faked maintenance crews for ships that do portside
maintenance, and weapons fire, although the latter
risks destroying the ship. At most ports any ship
powering up their jump drive is assumed to be
attempting to self-destruct, with the safest response
being to evacuate the immediate area.

A starship’s astrogator has the unenviable task of
planning and calculating jumps, which is oftentimes the
last of their calculations during transit to the 100D limit.
It is their job to analyse the ship’s intended destination,
the relative position and movements of relevant
celestial bodies, and the pilot’s course to the 100D limit
before deciding on the best trajectory. The astrogator
will take these factors into account and use both local
charts of the origin system and remote charts of the
destination to verify that the projected course will not
cross any 100D limits save for the destination world or
star. They may take a few hours crunching numbers
with the ship’s computer, before taking hours more to

The basic principles behind plotting a jump are
relatively straightforward. In theory, anyone could do
them with enough computer aid to perform the required
calculations. In practice, most starship crews will tacitly
agree that astrogation is more art than science.
Plotting a course to a neighbouring star system with
nothing in between seems simple; one only needs to
plot the start and end point, as there are no other gravity
wells in the way. Unfortunately, there is always the
potential for a rogue object. More powerful jump drives
might enable routes that pass near or through other star
systems. Even if a star system is present on a map, it
represents a small amount of material with a lot of space
all around, usually easily avoided by the astrogator.
Sometimes, however, an astrogator has to plan a
jump through an actual intervening star system. This
requires manipulation of the jump field to arc the jump
around the intervening gravity wells. Standard Jump
Control software packages automatically calculate this
arc, taking predictive data starting from the last known
coordinates of any worlds in the destination system and
projecting their trajectories to a safe emergence.

Jump Drives

PLOTTING

validate those numbers, then a moment to give these
numbers to the engineer to operate the drive. They
are responsible for confirming location upon jump exit,
which will be the next time they have solid data to work
with; while in jump, a ship is completely cut off from the
universe and thus unable to sense and communicate.

85

