T

Part of the finesse of an astrogator’s job is
compensating for these unknown or semi-known
variables, as explorers did not always finely map
interstellar space and most rogue planets, planetoids
and comets are almost undetectable. Charts will show
reported navigational hazards as well as data gathered
from long-range telescopic observation from ports but
any jumping ship risks arriving at an uncharted mass
without a skilful astrogator. Machines are not good at
this part, although chance favours them occasionally.

ASTROGATION

In theory, jumps happen in straight lines with no
arcs. Astrogation is simply a matter of calculating
a straight-line shot at a distance of parsecs.

Jump Drives

If only things were so easy.

86

On rare occasions, they can be this simple
but usually there is some rogue body in the
way, sometimes entire solar systems. Jump
into them and you wind up stopping at their
100D limit instead of the destination’s. Detour
around them, and the ship is off course. The
solution is to deviate a tiny fraction of a degree,
hitting perhaps 100.01D but no closer to take
advantage of spacetime’s slight bend, magnified
by jumpspace, in the presence of strong gravity
fields. Unbend spacetime and the line of travel is
‘straight’ but is rarely how observers in realspace
apply that term. This manoeuvre relies on nearperfect knowledge of every rogue body enroute
to a destination, knowledge that – thanks to
lightspeed limitations – is virtually impossible
to acquire. Projecting these objects forward
in time can result in some approximation but
requires complex n-body simulation to achieve
anything close to an accurate result. These
skillsets translate well to in-system navigation
as well; SDBs may carry astrogators to plan an
interception course.
All told, a successful jump plot can require keen
knowledge of technical software, a working
knowledge of astrophysics, a willingness to
take in uncountable variables and to utilise
an intuition honed over years. This is why
astrogation takes training.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The greater amount of potentially interfering objects
along with the need for a much finer degree of control
over the drive’s jump field account for the increasingly
higher bandwidth consumption of Jump Control
software as jump distance increases.
While uncommon, it is possible for an astrogator to
end up in a situation where there is no valid, safe jump
solution from a specified origin. The solution to this is
simple and only slightly annoying: let the captain know
and ask for a new origin point without the complicating
factors before reaching the unusable origin point.
While the computer handles that, the astrogator must
determine the best place to finish the jump based
on other criteria such as pirate prevalence and the
time spent in transit. All of this decision-making, as
well as the technical expertise and skill required
are what justify an astrogator’s comparatively high
salary. Unless filling multiple roles aboard a vessel,
astrogators ‘only work once every week and loiter
around the rest of the time’ according to some jealous
crewmates. However, they are the first person fingers
point at whenever arrival in a new system goes awry,
whether due to misjumps or pirates, to the point
that the reminder of the potential consequences of
a mistake can offer yet another complicating factor
when calculating a jump. While for most the week in
jump is often a time to take a breather and relax, most
astrogators will admit that they can never feel quite at
ease while still in jumpspace, counting down the hours
until breakthrough.
Although astrogation normally involves plotting a
course that ends 100-diameters from a star or planet,
this is a much larger target than some arbitrary point
in deep space. This is what an astrogator must target
when jumping to an ‘empty’ region of space. This
is the primary reason why there is well-preserved
documentation of how to jump to deep space
calibration points, from the early days of interstellar
travel on Terra when it was the only option. Jumping
to specific destinations under such conditions requires
extremely precise coordinates, generally obtained from
the group that maintains whatever is at the point or,
especially when the destination’s owners are hostile,
from an observatory ship one parsec away – roughly
3.26 light years. Even with coordinates, astrogating to
such a smaller target is naturally more difficult.
Ships without trained astrogators can use ‘jump
tapes’, pre-plotted astrogation solutions that will fly
a specific ship from one system to another, good
for only a limited time, typically a week or less from
manufacture. After that time, conditions in and

R

