between the systems may have changed enough
that the ship needs a new solution. One downside of
relying on jump tapes is that the ship can only jump to
destinations that have jump tapes available.

JUMP INITIATION

When all the plotting is finished and the ship is at the
calculated departure location for the specific jump plot,
the next step is to initiate the jump, usually by pressing
a button. Once pressed, a series of events must occur
to propel the ship into jumpspace so it can travel to its
destination. This starts by activating the drive/shunt
subsystem, including the jump drive emitters installed
over the entire hull of the ship. The power plant then
pushes a great amount of power through the lanthanum
and grav modules in those emitters.
Once the power is flowing through the drive/shunt system,
hydrogen is pumped by the jump field subsystem on
the hull of the ship, expanding it out to a large bubble if
employing a bubble-configuration drive, or a conformal
jump field if using a jump grid – see Jump Field, starting
on page 90. The majority of fuel designated for a jump
is used during this process to create the jump bubble.
Many compare this to children blowing bubbles from
soapy water, making the external view of jump initiation
fascinating to watch. The crew can only observe the
bubble forming from the limited view inside the ship.
The jump will not start until the jump field is
completely formed. Outside observers will only
see the field engulf the ship then seemingly pop,
making the ship and everything else inside the field
disappear, like the universe’s largest stage magic
trick. From the crew’s point of view, once the field
fully forms and blocks out the outside universe, the
ship is in jumpspace until the field dissolves at the
end of the jump.

Bypassing these checks never saves significant time
but does increase the consequences if one happens
to have less than enough fuel upon trying to jump. A
ship that began the jump process with insufficient fuel
would find that part of its hull suffered misjump since
the setup could not complete and eventually returned

A rare variant on the process is the use of ‘drop tanks’,
externally mounted tanks that rapidly inject hydrogen
fuel into the jump bubble and then ejected so their
tonnage need not be brought along. This ejection
often involves their partial or total destruction, as
they operate in close proximity to an expanding jump
bubble, making them uneconomical for commercial
ships. Those who plan to use drop tanks should check
with the system they are jumping from to see if the
local area allows discarding them and if there are any
conditions such as using jump points designated for
drop tank use, especially if there are plans to return.
In addition to protecting the starship during its weeklong
jump, the jump field serves the crucial purpose of
determining the ship’s destination. As the jump drive
activates, transitioning the ship into jumpspace,
fluctuations induced in the jump field as it forms make it
possible to give a ship the ‘push’ in jumpspace towards
its intended destination.

JUMPSPACE TRAVEL

Due to the temporal constant of jumpspace, the average
time of a jump is approximately 168 hours. It is possible
to bracket the ideal jump time more precisely via careful
astrogation and precise jump drive operation. A skilled
astrogator can select jump vectors that minimise the
energy of the tumble setting up the ship’s course,
which in turn ensures it deviates less. Similarly, a
well-calibrated jump drive can energise its drive/shunt
and jump field systems in greater accordance to the
astrogator’s plot, with fewer random fluctuations. A
well-trained starship crew is therefore capable of greatly
reducing not only the chance of misjumps but variations
in transit time and exit point scatter of jumps.
The ongoing mental welfare of the crew is of concern
during these week-long jumps. Preparing the crew to
sit through a jump is vital, as a whole week with little to
nothing to do can create problems. Studies suggest that
smaller crews find it harder, on average, to handle this
boredom. Many captains create work schedules with
detailed tasks to keep the crew busy and active during
the trip. Maintenance on the ship’s systems, particularly
the manoeuvre drive and sensors, is a common choice
as they will not see use during jump travel.

Jump Drives

Creation and inflation of the jump field is an extremely
rapid process, happening faster than any sophont can
react to. Only computers have a chance of performing
all the steps in time. As such, jump entry is impossible
without Jump Control software, which performs safety
checks such as making sure there is enough fuel before
attempting to begin. Without disabling these checks,
attempting to jump without enough fuel causes the
computer to display an error message.

to realspace as particles and radiation, while the rest
remained behind. The less fuel that is provided, the
less of the ship would enter jumpspace, to a minimum
of the outer skin where the jump emitters are. Some
claim from a certain point of view that disabling the
safety checks allows for jumping with less fuel than is
otherwise needed but surviving such a jump would be
nearly impossible.

87

