T

One constant is that destruction waits for anything
that exits and travels too far from the ship. Instead
of the starry black sky of space, jumpspace presents
an alien reality only kept at bay by the jump field.
Any matter that touches the field is eventually
returned to realspace as subatomic particles and
radiation. There are no records from sensors that
have survived this process, so no one knows what
happens between touching the jump field and return
to realspace, although it is generally believed the

JUMPSPACE JETSAM

‘Never throw anything into the jump field, as
that may result in destruction of the ship’ is a
lesson taught to engineering students early in
their education, although what actually happens
is rarely this dire. Accidentally or on purpose,
this does occasionally occur during a jump. In
general, one of three things may happen.

Jump Drives

Two of these are benign. The luckiest outcome
is if the jetsam simply floats around in the jump
bubble and returns to realspace with the ship,
where the expanding cloud of hydrogen simply
carries it off. Slightly worse is if the material
freezes to the hull, requiring the crew to go
out and remove it. Having a month’s worth of
raw sewage frozen to the hull rarely inspires
confidence in the crew but is ultimately survivable.

88

Potential disaster results if the jetsam touches
the edge of the jump bubble, whereupon it
disintegrates and the release of energy causes
the jump bubble to alter shape or ripple. The jump
field subsystem is designed to compensate to
some degree but in rare instances these effects
are large enough to impact the hull of the ship,
especially so with jump grids. This can cause a
cascade of failures ending in field collapse, ripping
apart every atom of the ship and everything within.
Even so, when there are things that absolutely
must be destroyed, throwing them into a jump
field is the most complete method of destruction
commonly available to ship crews. If employing
this method, break the garbage into the smallest
practical pieces and throw them one at a time
into the jump field, waiting for any ripples to
subside before throwing the next piece.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

destruction is instantaneous. This means that getting
into a vacc suit and strolling outside, inconvenient as
it may be on a spacecraft, is even less of an option
while in jumpspace.
It is a popular rumour that staring into jumpspace
causes insanity. It is a known and measured fact, so
far as these things can be measured, that jumpspace
looks different to different observers at different times
but looks the same to a group of observers looking
out from the same jump bubble at the same time, as
if its appearance was a form of consensus reality.
Many theorise that the majority of non-invented cases
of jumpspace-induced insanity actually consist of
loneliness-induced insanity – the affected person had
nothing better to do than to stare into jumpspace,
typically alone, due to other factors that stressed
the psyche. The IISS claims that loneliness, not
jumpspace, is the true cause of most mental health
effects in x-boat pilots, some of whom can be alone
for months at a time, although the recommendation is
for any given pilot to perform no more than four jumps
without relief, preferably no more than one pair of
jumps. This is why the manufacturers of certain small
ship classes recommend a minimum of three crew
roles, thus requiring a minimum of two people, despite
a lone pilot/astrogator being able to operate the ship.
Nonetheless, a good rule of thumb is to stay inside
the ship while in jump. There are many reports of
crew believing they could quickly fix something
outside in mid-jump, only to cease work and stare
off into the strangeness of jumpspace, before letting
go and drifting away from the hull. Once the crew
passes through the jump field’s edge, they are
swallowed completely, never to be heard from again
in jumpspace or realspace. It is highly recommended
that crew do external repairs in regular space, at a
dock if possible, instead of jumpspace.
Fast drug, which makes perceived time go by 60 times
faster, is sometimes used for jump travel. A standard
168 hours = 168 minutes dose makes a typical jump go
by in just under three hours. More experienced spacers
prefer to take a smaller dose, either to be fully awake
and alert in time for jump breakout or to prevent still
being under fast drug’s influence at breakout, in case of
an early jump exit.

JUMP EMERGENCE

An astrogator can aim the jump to influence where the
ship comes out but only to places where jumpspace
can put the ship. Many an astrogator compares the
process to helping aim a baby as it learns to walk.

R

