Starting about one hour before the ship exits
jumpspace, the jump field begins to exhibit some
well-defined changes, most notably ‘jump rumblings’
which are vibrations that anyone on the ship can feel.
Only those who are asleep or floating in a zero gravity
area may not notice them. Most engineers, navigators
and ships’ sensops train to identify these changes
and crews will take advantage of this warning to try to
have a full complement awake and at stations when
the ship emerges.
Two things happen upon emergence from jumpspace.
There is a detectable pulse of gravity as the ship
suddenly appears in realspace. Any remaining
ionised hydrogen in the jump field generates an
electromagnetic pulse or ‘jump flash’ which is
detectable at a similar range to the gravity pulse
before the hydrogen begins to disperse. If any impact
with the jump field consumed a significant quantity
of matter, it will usually return to realspace at this
time and may contribute to the exiting jump flash.
The remains of the matter consumed during initial
inflation are generally left at the point of jump entry,
contributing to that entry flash instead.
The ship emerges at minimum 100-diameters from
any large mass but retains the realspace vector it
had when it entered the jump. The astrogator’s job is
to compare the velocity that the destination will have
upon arrival relative to what the ship has upon jump,
to ensure the ship emerges into the target system
with a safe and sane vector. Many believe astrogators
compute in seven dimensions; three of position, three
of velocity and one of time. When this is not possible,
it may be the job of the pilot to do some quick
manoeuvring to avoid collisions, although emerging
in close proximity to another object is unlikely save
around the busiest of worlds.

IN-SYSTEM JUMPS
It may come as a surprise to those who have never
lived in a system with multiple populated worlds that
jump drives are commonly used for in-system transit.
For any two points in the same system that would
otherwise take many days to travel, a ‘microjump’ can
reduce transit time to one week. Unless one counts
the outer limits of Oort clouds, solar systems are tiny
fractions of a parsec in diameter. Despite this small
distance, in most respects an in-system jump acts like
a one-parsec jump. It is also a common way of testing
new models of jump drive.
A relatively obscure but potentially life-saving trick of
the astrogation trade is the so-called ‘null jump’. In an
emergency, such as in the middle of a pitched battle,
it is possible to initiate a jump without any inputted
astrogation solution. No ‘push’ is given to the jump field,
so the ship’s path collapses into a point. The jump drive
consumes fuel equivalent to a one-parsec jump. About
one week later, the ship breaks out into realspace where
it left. This point is where the ship’s vector would have
carried it for the jump’s duration, unaffected by gravity.
Stars and star systems are always in motion. A week
of such motion would displace the ship from its starting
point by hundreds of millions of kilometres, requiring a
lengthy transit back to the mainworld or other refuelling
point. There is the possibility of ending up more than
1,000 diameters from the star’s gravity well, leaving
the m-drive nonfunctional. Jump Control software can
predict the distance and direction of this displacement
and help an astrogator plot a jump path that
compensates for it but sometimes there may be no time
to run these calculations before triggering a null jump.
This technique can shake off would-be pursuers by
making them believe the ship jumped to another
system but there is a risk. If potential assailants are still
in the area upon jump exit, the hapless ship will have
jumped right back into danger, likely without enough
fuel to attempt a second jump to safety.

JUMP DRIVE SYSTEMS

Jump Drives

Misjumps often result in higher, lower, or patterned
concentrations of hydrogen, resulting in detectable
differences in the electromagnetic pulse. Because
of this pattern, the Third Imperium has a small
bounty for logs of misjumps as they help achieve
higher performing jump drive creation. This bounty
encourages starports to render emergency aid to
misjumped ships, as they receive a percentage of it.
Unfortunately, the regulations are complex enough, on
top of the inherently unpredictable nature of misjumps
and what can be usefully logged from them, that the
bounty is essentially random when it is paid at all,
although it is rarely enough to make up for the danger
of a misjump. In particular, if the logs suggest the
misjump was due to a preventable and well-studied
error such as poorly maintained drives, using unrefined

fuel or jumping inside the 100D limit, this reduces the
bounty. The crew must survive the misjump to be paid,
which is the biggest deterrent to those who would
deliberately misjump seeking this bounty.

Every jump drive comprises four basic subsystems,
although they may take different forms; the power
conditioner, the control subsystem, the drive/shunt
subsystem and the jump bubble subsystem.

89

