T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

JUMP FIELD
The most prominent feature of the jump drive is the
thick conduit running from the ship’s power plant.
The cables inside it connect directly to the power
conditioner, the subsystem responsible for interfacing
the jump drive with the ship’s power plant. It takes in
the power used to warm up the drive for a jump and,
more crucially, handles and directs the astonishing
power surge of the overclocked power plant. To survive
such enormous energies delivered in a short time,
many jump drives employ a bank of zuchai crystal
energy sinks tuned and balanced for the ship. This
seeps in excess energy and releases it as required.
While other energy sink designs are employed in
lower Tech Level jump drives, a majority of designs
favour zuchai-based arrays for their compact size and
efficient, reliable charge/discharge cycles.

Jump Drives

The control subsystem closely observes the workings
of the power conditioner, which monitors the status
of the zuchai energy sinks. While able to store
tremendous charge, zuchai crystals can be saturated,
leading to their violent decomposition. It is the control
subsystem’s job to dynamically allocate the incoming
energy to prevent sink saturation and distribute
the proper power flow to the field and drive/shunt
subsystems. The control subsystem runs thorough
diagnostics before and after a jump as imperfections in
the crystalline lattices of zuchai energy sinks can cause
stresses during charge/discharge and can lead to the
catastrophic destruction of the drive.

90

Beyond administering the power conditioner, the
control subsystem contains the drive’s jump governor,
which allows it to operate below its maximum factor.
Without it, a jump-4 drive would only be capable
of jumping four parsecs, no lower. Without a jump
governor, an astrogator can still attempt shorter jumps
by aiming the jump line to intersect the destination’s
100D limit but this is more difficult. The danger is
slipping right past the target to whatever spot lies at
the maximum distance in that direction, which is rarely
conveniently close to a source of fuel with which to
make another jump. Despite its importance, the jump
governor is merely a subset of the control subsystem
and not a separate component, especially as a jump
drive can work without it.
By using modified high-intensity gravitic modules to
'bend' local spacetime in the appropriate ways, the
drive/shunt subsystem 'pinches' volumes of spacetime
and, once the jump bubble subsystem enlarges
and manipulates the volumes into a single one that
encompass the entire starship, sends it through
jumpspace. This energy-intensive process is the culprit
of the significant power needs of jump.

Jump fields are only possible due to the special
properties of lanthanides, in particular lanthanum itself.
The atomic structure of lanthanides repels jumpspace,
making it able to generate a tiny ‘bubble’ of realspace,
a property not shared by most other stable elements,
although barium has sometimes been used to lesser
effect. Certain heavier elements have also been
reported to display this property, but these are isotopes
with extremely short half-lives, synthesised during
jump to last long enough to be tested, making them
impractical for use in starship construction.
Expanding this bubble to a useful size requires that
a large amount of electricity be driven through the
lanthanide in conjunction with an internal pressure,
provided by injecting a gas to blow it up to size, up
to a maximum diameter determined by the enclosed
object’s volume. This is not trivial, as interactions
between matter and field can cause ripples that
catastrophically destabilise it – see Jumpspace
Jetsam on page 88.
Hydrogen is used to avoid these instabilities. Its atomic
structure, the closest possible to a point-mass, allows
for clean and homogenous interactions with the field,
keeping chaotic ripples to a minimum; other elements
with heavier masses and larger nuclei cause too many
and too strong instabilities, an effect only made worse
by using molecules instead. Hence the importance of
using properly refined fuel: keeping contaminants to a
minimum ensures stable field formation.
When a starship initiates a jump a series of jump
emitters, part of the drive/shunt subsystem, undergo
this process. The lanthanum in the drive/shunt is
energised, creating a realspace pocket which is then
inflated by the field subsystem through the injection of
hydrogen. The emitters’ gravitic modules distort local
space as specified by the astrogation plot, inducing a
so-called ‘tumble’ that will steer the ship towards its
destination as it enters jumpspace. Most compare the
process to simultaneously conducting thousands or
millions of orchestras that have to seamlessly merge
upon reaching a specific note.
About 90% of a jump’s fuel is consumed during jump
entry, primarily to create the jump field, with the
remainder used to maintain it during jump travel. If
a ship runs out of power mid-jump or the jump field
system is otherwise rendered inoperative, the ship will
not be immediately endangered, but the longer this
situation lasts, the higher the risk of jump intrusions
– see page 92 – or outright jump bubble collapse.

R

