T

grids. Imperial and Solomani ships, as well as preImperial Vilani ships, typically employ a square or
rectangular mesh sometimes mockingly referred to
as a checkerboard. Zhodani starships tend to use
a triangular mesh. Droyne ships utilise a hexagonal
pattern, with a few pentagons scattered in to allow for
proper tessellation over their surfaces. Aslan ships
instead use curving, swirling lines, with whirls and
spirals reminiscent of the calligraphic yoyeaokhtef
that adorn their interior walls; Aslan engineers find it
easy enough to follow these patterns that they are
no harder to maintain than ‘boring’ Imperial designs.
Vargr ships rely on an evenly spaced but otherwise
completely anarchic setup; the trick to maintaining
these is apparently to treat each section of the hull as
its own thing and follow the ‘advice’ it gives rather than
trying to impose a single uniform solution on the entire
ship, similar to how any large Vargr group works. Hiver
vessels utilise complex, intricate moiré-like grids with
overlapping elements, which can be quite dazzling
to the eye when activating. The K’Kree use a grid of
parallelograms likened to ‘blades of grass’ on their
saucer-shaped vessels.

JUMP INTRUSIONS

Jump Drives

A ‘jump intrusion’ is when the jump field collapses
and intersects the hull, most often mid-jump after
field inflation. All recorded misjumps that involved
jump intrusions showed them progressing in either
a steady advance or a ‘pulsing’ rate with brief
increases in the rate of intrusion coupled with
temporary slowing or reversal.

92

While a jump intrusion can cause a wide variety of
problems, the crew should deal with it like a hull
breach. The affected areas exposed to vacuum should
be evacuated and sealed off. This breach may spread,
so plan according to how long each part of the ship has
left. If there is a room that projections show will remain
untouched, plan to gather there. Failing that, meet
in vacc suits in whatever area will be least affected
and have materials to patch the breach once out of
jumpspace; the jump intrusion will vanish immediately
upon jump exit. The damage is done but it will not
deteriorate any more. Plan to have a distress beacon
broadcasting the moment you exit jump.
If projections show complete collapse of the jump
field, a ship’s only hope is to have a way to slow
the jump intrusions down. Most often, it will involve
stopping whatever caused them in the first place. If
the intrusions progress significantly, reaching them

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

may require unorthodox methods such as cutting
through bulkheads or passing through exposed
areas during a low pulse. If the crew can eliminate
the source, it may be possible to use the jump field
subsystem to reinflate the field, especially if there
is leftover fuel. While past the most critical danger,
the starship will have suffered heavy damage, likely
with life support partially compromised. Surviving
crew and passengers will not be ‘safe’ until aboard a
rescuing spacecraft or port.
Prevention is the best cure. Fix malfunctioning
equipment and do not use it until repaired, despite the
idea that fixing it would be too expensive or bothersome.
Some point to statistics or anecdotes that show ships
with these equipment issues still fly well but that is a
survivorship bias error, as these statistics and anecdotes
only include ships not lost to jump intrusions.

MAINTENANCE AND UPGRADES
When bringing a ship into a starport for annual
maintenance, the technicians pull each of the drive
elements and test them individually. Ships that use
ongoing maintenance instead of annual maintenance
test units in a rotating schedule between jumps,
replacing failing or substandard units. This level of
modularity benefits the jump drive industry.
Occasionally maintenance issues become apparent
during the creation of the jump field. Even with
computer control, the field sometime brushes against
the hull, causing micrometeorite-like dings. Unclogging
the hydrogen injectors is another common maintenance
headache due to large numbers of them, even on
a relatively small Suleiman hull, which spend most
of their time exposed to vacuum. While they squirt
tiny amounts of hydrogen, occasionally larger debris
sticks and clogs the injectors in a manner akin to
particles lodged in pores on skin. This results in no
end of references to engineers giving the ship a spa
day. Freezing and clogging the injectors is the most
common means by which impurities in unrefined fuel
interfere with jumps.
Upgrading a ship’s jump rating typically means buying
a new jump drive. If absolutely necessary, a jump
drive can be rebuilt or upgraded piece-by-piece,
although it is not recommended as trying to modify
a non-native component to work with other systems
can be more expensive than buying a new jump drive
to begin with. Upgrade the power conditioner first to
handle the additional power drawn from the power
plant, then the control system. Most starships have
drive/shunts designed for multiple jump levels at that

R

