particular ship’s size class but sometimes shipyards
replace it entirely. Finally, upgrade the jump field
subsystem to handle the increased hydrogen required
to maintain the field. If all goes well, the jump drive
now takes the ship farther.

One does not have to know all those theories
of how the jump drive works to use it, only what
needs to be done to start it up again quickly
for the next jump. Too many times a scout gets
into trouble by not knowing the steps required
to jump or without making sure they can load
enough fuel on board to move the ship out of a
hostile area. Sometimes one can leave quietly
and peacefully but preparing ahead of time
has saved many scouts. Scouts should always
keep an emergency jump route in mind as it is
amazing how quickly a system can turn hostile
after delivering a vital piece of information.

Jump Drives

While maintenance is important, making sure the
jump drive is undamaged and has enough fuel and
supplies for its mission should be a high priority before
making the jump as not all destinations offer resupply
and jumpspace offers no such opportunities. When
entering a new system, a ship can scan for a gas
giant or area with sufficient water or ice, which gives
an excuse to scout a bit before landing or continuing
with the mission. Some leave that job until it is time
to go, which can cause problems if the ship needs to
leave quickly, as refuelling can be a time-consuming
process. It is best to start preparations for restocking
as soon as possible. While an astrogator is working on
calculating the next possible jump, it is often a good
idea for them to identify a couple of routes out of the
system in case of emergency.

THE SCOUT
While most believe a scout on a ship like the
Suleiman would rely mostly on sensors, the truth
lies closer to the jump drive. While it varies by
their mission, most spend at least half their time
in jumpspace, particularly those on courier duty.
The wide-open space and long runs are what
many scouts love about their job; if you do not
like jumping, scouting is not for you.

93

