REACTION DRIVES
Properly defined, reaction drives are any part of a
spacecraft that moves the spacecraft through direct
reaction with mass. This excludes gravitics or any
other reaction with an energy field, as well as another
spacecraft docking and applying its drives.
Like jump drives, most reaction drives consume fuel.
Unlike jump drives, reaction drives deliver relatively
little movement, and lifters and manoeuvre drives
render reaction drives obsolete for most purposes.
Most starship crews will never personally encounter
reaction drives but it is still useful to know about them.
It is distressingly common for those with no personal
starship experience to assume that starship crews
know about all manner of space systems, even ones
not used on starships. Reaction drives are particularly
susceptible to this, especially on worlds where gravitics
are not available so reaction drives are the only means
available to reach space.
When reaction drives are present on a starship, it is
most often due to one of three reasons, the first two
of which are more common among ships designed for
combat. First, reaction and manoeuvre drives have a
maximum performance generally limited by TL but these
are separate limits. Having both systems allows a ship
to accelerate at the sum of the drives’ performances,
achieving much greater acceleration than is possible
with either drive alone. Second, some ships use reaction
drives as an emergency backup for manoeuvre drives
as their failure modes have little overlap. Most reaction
drives will continue to function even if the ship loses
power, while manoeuvre drives can continue without a
ready supply of reaction mass. Third, reaction drives can
operate beyond a manoeuvre drive’s operational limit,
whether in the Oort cloud of a system or light years from
the nearest star or rogue planet.
While reaction drives can come with inertial
compensation, as described in Ship Internal Gravitics
starting on page 75, most do not. Using them without
subjects a ship’s occupants to G forces. Technically,
reaction drives only accelerate themselves and anything
they are rigidly attached to, such as the ship’s hull,
which in turn pushes along its contents, such as crew
and passengers. This acceleration acts like gravity
proportional to thrust; in most cases this force is
substantially more than 1G. The uneven distribution of

94

forces and structural weakness of flesh and bone lead
to several health issues with prolonged exposure to
high G forces, with more severe effects the greater the
force and the longer the exposure. The crew’s ability to
survive, rather than any technological limitation, dictates
the maximum strength of a ship’s reaction drive.
One of the simplest ways to illustrate the difference
between manoeuvre drives and reaction drives is to
consider why Jump Control software automatically
locks down any reaction drives during jump. Where
a manoeuvre drive would do nothing, having no
significant mass outside the ship to react with, a
reaction drive works inside a jump field. However,
extreme care must be taken as any significant exhaust
would severely destabilise the jump field. As this would
destroy the ship, there is precedent in Imperial courts
that any attempt to activate reaction drives while in
jump amounts to an attempt to destroy the ship, which
serves as legal justification for lethal force and/or
mutiny if necessary to stop this attempt.

ROCKETS
The most common reaction drives expel mass at a
high velocity. There have been a number of means
employed to achieve this but they work by the same
basic principle, where mass is removed from the
spacecraft in exchange for thrust. Most rockets
have exhaust nozzles that adjust their diameters for
optimal performance in atmosphere or space, as well
as regenerative cooling that uses a small amount of
propellant to keep the exhaust nozzle from melting.
When discussing rockets as a means of propulsion,
a primary concern is their efficiency, in how much can
they move the attached ship using a given amount of
fuel. Due to conservation of momentum, the only way
to increase this efficiency is to increase the speed of
any expelled mass, referred to as exhaust velocity. As
a result, most advancements in rocket technology are
measured by increasing this exhaust velocity through
direct combustion, accelerating charged particles, or
any number of other mechanisms. Few ships employ
gravitics to enhance rocket performance, whether
because rockets are in use because gravitics are

