unavailable or because the reaction drive is an augment
to a manoeuvre drive which this might interfere with.
Some rockets have an ‘atmospheric mode’, wherein
they hook fuel scoops to the reaction drive and use air
as reaction mass, usually heating it before expelling it.
This doubles the cost of the reaction drive, only works
within a thin or thicker atmosphere or a hydrosphere
and requires that the spacecraft have fuel scoops. The
result is perhaps the fastest, most agile in-atmosphere
performance manufactured in Charted Space, at a price
that is almost never worth it for this capability alone,
although there is always some reason that makes the
price almost irrelevant.
● Some spacecraft use this method to achieve orbital
speed. As this greatly saves on fuel, this may be
the most practical means of achieving orbit where
these rockets are available and gravitics are not.
● Ships that frequently pursue blockade runners,
system defence fighters and similar sometimes
have this feature built in during construction to
sustain maximum acceleration for longer periods.
● Racing and emergency response craft sometimes
justify reaction drives on account of speed being
their primary mission.

CHEMICAL

The lowest TL form of rockets, these burn fuel that
has energy bound up in its molecules and vent the
combustion products. There are many subdivisions of
chemical rockets; solid or liquid fuel, monopropellant
or bipropellant, pump fed or pressure fed. None
of these subdivisions are significant compared to
the performance gains from switching to electric or
nuclear thermal rockets.

ELECTRIC

Known as ion rockets, these accelerate charged
particles at very high velocities, akin to crude particle
beams but without the range – or damage, unless the

Early electric rockets have very limited thrust, being
woefully insufficient to achieve orbit, only able to
adjust orbit and escape to interplanetary space.
However, they are much more efficient with their
output than chemical rockets. World-to-world transfers
in an inner solar system with an early electric drive
providing constant thrust are possible, while a
chemical reaction drive of similar TL would have
nowhere near the necessary endurance.
A few spacecraft employ advanced electric rockets
capable of generating a full G of thrust or a significant
fraction, thrusting at this level for most of their journey.
Most of these use a tailsitter design with ‘down’ pointing
in the direction of thrust, for the sake of artificial gravity
without gravitics. The controls and layout are designed
to facilitate zero gravity operations as well, for those
times when the spacecraft is not in motion.
Some differentiate ‘nuclear electric’ from other types,
as the greater density of power available from a
fission or fusion power plant makes greater thrust
and endurance possible. This helps distinguish it from
nuclear thermal propulsion.

NUCLEAR THERMAL

The hotter the exhaust, the faster the propellant leaves
the ship, the more efficient the rocket. The highest
temperatures achievable are associated with fusion
processes. Nuclear thermal propulsion takes this to
its logical conclusion, using a fission or fusion reactor
to directly heat the propellant rather than convert the
reactor’s output to electricity.
Those who misunderstand nuclear processes
sometimes believe the exhaust of a nuclear thermal
rocket is inherently radioactive but this is not practical
for multiple reasons. To illustrate this, it is best to
distinguish between two types of nuclear thermal
rockets. ‘Open cycle’ rockets have no shielding
between the nuclear process and the fuel, so the
reaction mass is directly exposed to the fusion or
fission processes and picks up radioactive elements.
‘Closed cycle’ ones have substantial shielding –
blocking alpha and beta particles while allowing
as much heat as possible – so the exhaust is not
substantially radioactive.

Reaction Drives

On many worlds these barely reach orbit, sometimes
requiring designs that discard sections of the
spacecraft on the way up. This makes access to space
far less economical, which is the main reason why
practical exploitation of a solar system beyond a single
colonised world and its moons tends not to happen
before the world can manufacture its own gravitics at
TL9. Some TL7–8 systems have managed to come
up with relatively high performing versions of electric
or nuclear thermal rockets and there are rumours of
Ancients chemical fuels with a high enough energy
density to make chemical rockets competitive with early
nuclear thermal rockets.

target is almost touching the engine. As with chemical
rockets, electric rocket varieties are similar enough to
not merit discussion of the subdivisions available.

Open cycle rockets would be more efficient if one
looked solely at power and mass per unit thrust.
However, operating in this manner irradiates the

95

