T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

engine, requiring costly replacement after several hours
of use. More importantly, almost no inhabited world
capable of controlling its airspace allows the operation
of open cycle reaction drives anywhere near their world
where fallout could reach areas they wish to protect,
although closed cycle drives are allowed. This ban on
open cycle drives is treated as seriously as the ban on
the use of nuclear weapons near populated worlds in
Imperial space, although technically it falls to individual
worlds to enforce.
It is generally not efficient to conduct a full fusion
cycle and use the resulting helium as reaction mass,
although some drives do. Among the issues is
maintaining the larger nuclear damper field needed
to cover the entire engine. Rather, most nuclear
thermal drives use a separate dedicated reactor to
heat hydrogen pulled from the same fuel tank that
services the main power plant and, on starships, the
jump drive. This allows spacecraft to trade off jump
capability, operational endurance and reaction drive
performance. Some fighters make an art of this, the
same fuel tank allowing for either an extended patrol
using only manoeuvre drive or high speed but limited
duration combat operations.

Fuel

Open
cycle

Reactor

Reaction Drives

Nuclear thermal drives are the most common
form of reaction drive in modern ships due to the
widespread use of ‘HEPlaR’, or High Efficiency Plasma
Recombustion. It is so common that, if one sees a
ship in the Third Imperium with an unidentified type
of reaction drive, it is safe to assume HEPlaR unless
there is evidence to the contrary. The term became
generic, similar to modern fusion power plants being
called ‘Fusion+’ even if they do not precisely follow the
original patented formula.
Modern use of the term means a cluster of small fusion
reactors – usually three, four, or six – arranged around
a central chamber that takes in liquid hydrogen, heats
it to a plasma and expels it. Not primarily designed to
capture fusion output as electricity, these small reactors
use laser-weapon-grade mirrors, superconductors and
further means to route more than 99% of the output
energy directly into the propellant. The remainder
is waste heat, partly used to spin turbines to create
electricity used to recharge ultracapacitors that start the
fusion reaction and to manage the system. Like most
rockets, HEPlaR is fully independent of the ship’s power
system, needing no external energy to start or maintain.

NUCLEAR THERMAL DRIVES

96

Closed
cycle

R

