HIGH EFFICIENCY PLASMA RECOMBUSTION

Fuel

Plasma recombustion refers to the exceptionally
efficient transfer of heat from reactor to propellant.
However, ‘High Efficiency’ and ‘Plasma Recombustion’
stress the same point. When introduced, the official
explanation was the system was just so efficient at
transferring heat that it justified the name. While the
system is very efficient, that is not the entire reason this
label became popular.

As with Fusion+ power plants, there remain enough
technical similarities between modern HEPlaR drives
and those manufactured around the founding of the
Third Imperium to justify retaining use of the name,
but the primary reasons are tradition and pride. It is
theoretically possible that someone will someday invent
a radically different and much better reaction drive that
none would call HEPlaR. Today is not that day.

OTHER REACTION DRIVES

As with most spacecraft technologies, time witnessed
the invention of a wide variety of reaction drives. While
a number of supposed reaction drives have turned out
to be complicated manoeuvre drives, there have been
a few non-rocket reaction drives.

THE T-DRIVE
One famous example of a non-reaction drive is
the ‘Reactionless Drive’, known as the T-Drive.
Allegedly, it turns rotational energy into linear
thrust. In truth they are fancy manoeuvre drives
which sacrifice efficiency and performance.
T-Drives are notorious for being based on a truly
ancient mistake, the hypothetical Dean Drive of
pre-spaceflight Terra. Despite similar claims of
turning rotational energy into linear motion, the
Dean Drive was in fact reacting to friction with
whatever surface it was mounted on. Likewise,
most demonstrations of the ‘reactionless’ T-Drive
fail to account for nearby gas or plasma the drive
pushes away.
This is not to say that T-Drives do not work, just
that they are not properly reaction drives.

Reaction Drives

HEPlaR started as a marketing term for a specific
type of nuclear thermal drive. Like Fusion+, it was not
technically invented by Cleon I but popularised during
his reign. HEPlaR started out as one of the many
applications of Fusion+ that made this new generation
of fusion power plants so attractive. It was arguably
the second most successful such application, after
power generation. Its success greatly assisted Cleon I’s
economic and technological ambassadorship that was
vital to the Third Imperium’s early growth to the point
that some misattribute its creation to Cleon I himself.

Reactors

97

