T

COLD GAS
Cold gas thrusters store gas at high pressure then vent
it. They are similar to a rocket, except the propellant
is not significantly heated. The gas is not moving at a
substantial velocity, generating no significant amount
of thrust. This approach is only useful for short-range
manoeuvring and changing facing, although is majorly
less damaging to its surroundings than other forms of
reaction drive, especially if used in port in close proximity
to other ships. Given its inability to impart significant
thrust, many consider this not a proper reaction drive.
Directing helium vented from power plants and
opening pressurised airlocks to depressurise in
a given direction fall under this category. Some
spacecraft use a small reserve of helium, recharged
from the power plant as necessary, as a backup
means of changing facing, particularly to counter spin
imparted on the craft by external forces.

SAILS

Deflecting masses of particles flowing around a
vehicle to provide propulsion is, by some measures,
the defining technological advancement of TL2
when applied to waterborne vessels. Almost every
civilisation that independently achieved spaceflight
has experimented with the same principle, even if
solar winds are much thinner than the winds of any
significant atmosphere.

Reaction Drives

Some sails are simply large, thin and light structures
that cover a large area. Others are partially or entirely
magnetic fields, as solar winds typically consist
largely of ions that magnetic fields can readily deflect.
Either way, pushing away from the local star is easy,

98

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

while getting closer involves ‘tacking’, deflecting the
wind to approach at an angle, going back and forth
so the overall course heads toward the star. Orbital
mechanics play into this as well. Accelerating or
decelerating on a vector perpendicular to the direction
the star is in can cause a spacecraft to drift toward an
orbit further away or closer in.
Sails are arguably the closest thing to a truly
reactionless drive presently available. They take no
fuel, although they are much slower than most other
options so fuel to power life support over the extended
voyage is a consideration.
Some systems set up lasers to push sails quickly
between worlds, forming an interplanetary mass transit
system. Laser-pushed sails have been considered as an
alternative to jump drive for interstellar flights, although
beam dispersion over light years means this would be
an extraordinarily slow process. It would take hundreds
or thousands of years, long enough that many efforts are
prevented by concerns over whether those who would
send forth these craft could keep the laser shining for the
entire duration. Many other efforts have been terminated
once jump drive became available, by ships visiting the
craft in deep space to ‘rescue’ those aboard, loot the
ship or commit simple vandalism.
Sails not pushed by lasers are mostly used for nobles’
or high society spacecraft, where their inefficiency
and the unusual piloting skills required are seen as an
upper crust affectation, much like waterborne sailing
on Regina. Some ships bring sails as a backup drive,
particularly those exploring unknown or potentially
hostile systems that may watch for signs of manoeuvre
drives but ignore other data that might signal incoming
ships out of complacency or hubris.

R

