WEAPONS AND DEFENCES
Readers of this book, if they ever encounter space
combat, are much more likely to be involved in
battles with only two or a few ships, each of which
has only a few weapons. Having the right weapon
on hand and defences against hostiles can make
the difference between surviving an ambush and
becoming a cloud of debris.
Calibrate weapons regularly, if the ship has any, as
part of maintenance. Installation with a misalignment of
a hundredth of a degree can ensure nonstop misses,
especially when knocked around by fuel scooping or
from a hard landing. Single practice shots at low power

CLOSE SUPPORT

Although firing ship weapons into personal
melee is not recommended, there have been
times when someone who is sitting at a gunnery
turret, having been confined to the ship while a
battle happens outside, wishes to support their
allies. If one has to do it, lasers are the best
type of weapon given their accuracy, although
even lasers have a blast radius caused by
ejected debris. The exact limit of this depends
on material struck and the laser’s energy
content at impact but it is possible to estimate
the dangerous area and aim so this includes the
opposition but not the gunner’s compatriots. It
is much easier to do this when there are several
metres between those the gunner wishes to
doom and those they wish to save.
Rarely will a captain give an order to fire on a
hostile ship as part of boarding actions. Firing
will punch holes in the hull and depressurise
the ship, sometimes while the boarding crew is
aboard. Any boarding party should wear vacc
suits in case this happens. If you are boarding
a ship, you mainly want the ship intact. More
importantly, this legitimises return fire directed
at the turret, should the other ship have any
functioning and crewed weapons.

are generally sufficient to detect and measure this drift,
allowing the computer to adjust for it when firing. No
other work is required outside of annual maintenance,
where the shipyard can correct these errors, which may
save the crew’s life if the weapons are ever required.
It is extremely difficult to carry out during actual fights,
which rarely come with much warning for small ships.

WEAPON MOUNTS
For the reasons given in Hardpoints and Firmpoints
on page 9, a 100 ton ship will have at most a single
weapon mount while a 200 ton ship will have at most
two. Captains of such ships must carefully select which
weapons they will carry, if any. While an unarmed ship
can enter some private ports that forbid visibly armed
ships, no public starport in the Third Imperium can
afford such a restriction and there is the option of using
pop-up turrets to appear unarmed. However, not all
weapon mounts are equal.
Firmpoint and hardpoint mounts have different
standards. Hardpoints generally provide more power
and structure for heavier recoil. Although firmpoint
weapons could mount to hardpoints where they would
underperform, it is a good rule of thumb to assume the
two types are not compatible.

TURRET
A slightly external mount that is able to track and
swivel to point a weapon at a target, turrets are the
standard option for small ships, easily dismountable
with standardised fittings allowing quick replacement
at most starports with the proper equipment (any Class
C or above and some Class D starports). Up to three
weapons can be mounted in a standard size turret,
although it must carry sufficient power couplings, fire
control and structural reinforcement if it is to carry a
full trio. Some claim to have mounted no less than four
weapons onto a standard turret, although the authors
of this book found no surviving examples in their
research, suggesting this may not be a wise decision.
The standard templates for the ships in the Ship
Walkthrough chapter include turrets only rated for two
weapons each, with actual purchase and installation of
weapons left to the ship’s owner post-construction. Many

99

