T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Bay

Barbette
Turret
Pop up

owners never bother as starship-scale weapons are
expensive, with costs typically measured in Megacredits
per weapon. Some captains use relatively easily
installable, removable and resaleable turret weapons
as portable currency that serve a useful function to
boot. Others utilise turrets for things besides weaponry;
directional sensors or drone launchers are a common
choice, particularly on scouting or exploration craft.

Weapons and Defences

Pop up varieties retract into the hull when not in use,
making the ship appear unarmed. Detailed scans will
find these only at close enough range that hostilities
would have already commenced. Aside from stealth
and ambush, these can create a polite fiction when
dealing with ports that can afford to turn away armed
traffic. It is useful to assume that every apparently
unarmed ship at such a port has pop up turrets and
is willing to blow away troublemakers at the Port
Authority’s request.

100

FIXED MOUNT

Essentially the same as turrets, these are cheaper to
install. The trade-off is that they are less useful when
fighting up close – see Point Defence and Dogfighting.
For weapons only used at significant ranges where it is
easy to point the ship at the enemy, these often make
economic sense. Almost all fixed mounts have a small
range of motion but for the most part the ship must turn
to point these at a target. Most fixed mounts will accept
standard turret weapons, to a maximum of three per
mount. Pop up fixed mounts are available.

BARBETTE

Known as ‘heavy turret’ mounts, barbettes are not
modular and straddle the border between civilian and
military grade armaments. It often takes connections

Fixed mount

or unusual circumstances for a civilian ship owner to
be able to acquire one, whether as part of a ship or an
upgrade, although there are always shipyards willing to
overlook regulatory issues. They are rarely worthwhile
and uncommon except for ships expecting to engage
in ship combat on a regular basis or those who would
benefit from deterrence. More than one pirate has
turned away when the outline of a ship at the extreme
edge of sensor detection sported a barbette.

BAY

Rarely found on commercial ships, this is a designation
for any sizeable collection of weapons larger than
a barbette but short of a true spinal mount. In some
cases, the difference is merely one of scale; there
are 1,000 ton ships wrapped around a single large
weapons bay, much as capital ships wrap around their
spinal mounts. While bays have some movement, it
is rarely anywhere near a turret or barbette and many
consider them comparable to a fixed mount. Some
large ships will mount these bays in oversized turrets
but most consider this unnecessary as the ranges at
which bays become useful are generally long enough
that even limited movement is sufficient.

SPINAL

Spinal mount weapon systems are massive, comprising
thousands of displacement tons without counting power
or support systems. To use these, the entire ship must
point at the target, although there are subsystems
within the weapon to assist with precise aim.
Spinal weapons have a hard time hitting a ship as
small as 100 or 200 tons, which may give a small
ship a chance to flee and jump away if they come
under fire. The most useful advice this book can give

R

