about surviving an attack by a spinal mount weapon
is, do not put the ship in the line of fire. Assuming that
‘if it fires and hits, the crew will be dead’ is a useful
approximation and can be sufficient motivator to talk a
way out of a situation before it comes to that.
Bay and spinal mount weapons are used in the
defences of larger spaceports. The most well defended
Imperial worlds have spinal grade meson cannons
buried deep underground, where they can fire through
the planet to destroy threats anywhere nearby, even on
the far side of the world. Only other meson weapons or
special operations infiltrating the weapon sites stand a
chance of disarming the defences. Smaller spaceports
may have barbettes or turrets, if they have defences at
all. Unarmed spaceports are frequent buyers of surplus
turret weapons unloaded by ship captains, although
most spaceport administrators are aware those
captains often wait until they are in distress before
parting with their weapons and accordingly offer low
prices or favours in lieu of Credits.

PLACEMENT
Although the majority of this book’s audience will only
use the weapon mounts that come with their ship, if
any, some will wish to install new ones. There is a
question of where to mount them, the answer to which
can be complicated.

Consider a spacecraft with two turrets, one each on the
dorsal and ventral sides, both limited to a 180° arc of
fire. These turrets, mounted on flat parallel sections of
the hull, grant almost 360o coverage, barring a narrow
plane between the sections. However, only one turret
could fire on a target at any given time, thus having
no convergence. Alternatively, these turrets could be
mounted on a section of the hull more sharply angled
forwards. This would limit coverage to the aft but would
allow both turrets to fire upon targets, granting greater
convergence to the fore. Some roughly liken this to
primitive fauna using either monocular or binocular
vision. The Empress Marava’s starboard-fore and port-

For the overwhelming majority of spacecraft with
more than one weapon mount, prioritise convergence.
Although coverage is critical for point defence against
missiles and light craft, most engagements take place
at a long enough range that manoeuvring and spinning
to allow every turret to fire on target is feasible. Nonmilitary exceptions are practically non-existent.

TYPES OF WEAPONS
An exhaustive treatise on the many kinds of weapons
used in space combat over the millennia would be larger
than this book. To usefully classify the vast and diverse
array of shipborne weapons in Charted Space, it is
necessary to group many types into a few categories.
One common equation relevant to weapons engineers
is for kinetic energy, KE = ½mv2. In Galanglic, ‘the kinetic
energy of a projectile is equal to half the mass times
velocity squared’. Armament engineers have to work
backwards from that. They have a maximum energy
budget, minus inefficiencies in the weapon’s launch
mechanism. Energy requirements for a (physical)
projectile increase linearly as the mass goes up but
quadratically as velocity increases. Space warfare
demands the highest possible muzzle velocity achievable
to allow accuracy at long range, even at the cost of
projectile size, thus one can trace the history of weapon
development as incremental increases in muzzle velocity
coupled with substantial decreases in projectile size.
Missiles propel enormous warheads, hence why more
than half of a missile is its m-drive. Slugthrowers suffer
as well, as there is generally a minimum size requirement
per projectile due to constraints of the specific launching
systems. Bombardment slugthrowers tend to use heavier
projectiles and lower velocities, while dedicated space
combat slugthrowers like sandcasters go as small as
possible. Plasma and fusion weapons take this further,
firing a minimally sized gas at outrageous velocities
and relying on temperature to do additional damage.
Particle and meson weapons reach the extreme of what
is possible, such as firing individual particles at high
fractions of light speed. Lasers sidestep the issue by using
massless photons that travel at lightspeed.

LASERS

These fire beams of coherent photonic energy, the
simplest forming it by bouncing energy back and forth
through a chamber with mirrors on either end until
the energy is all going in the same direction and has

Weapons and Defences

To ease the process, consider each weapon mount in
terms of its arc of fire. Fixed mounts will have a limited
degree of movement, while turrets or barbettes will
have almost unlimited arcs, stopped only by the hull.
Spacecraft with only one weapon mount will find the
decision trivial; the firing arc should cover the forward
axis to ease aiming and, if a turret is mounted, cover
as much of the ventral or dorsal side of the craft as
possible. Dorsal mounts are usually preferred as
they facilitate firing while landed. Ventral mounts are
desirable if using the spacecraft for ground attack,
generally only a concern for mercenary or military units.

fore turrets are a compromise between coverage and
convergence, albeit on the port and starboard surfaces
rather than ventral and dorsal.

101

