T

the desired intensity. More advanced versions use
variations on this such as bouncing light between thin
reflective layers individually less than a micron thick,
one accepting electrons from another and creating
photons in the process that stimulates more electrons
until the light finds its way out the side. Some speak
of ‘masers’ where this energy is in the microwave
frequencies or ‘grasers’ for gamma ray frequencies but
the basic principle remains the same.
Lasers come in ‘beam’ and ‘pulse’ varieties, which
either fire one continuous beam or break up the energy
into separate pulses. The latter do more damage
because vaporised material tends to reflect and absorb
some of the energy of a continuous beam; firing in
pulses gives the material time to disperse, allowing
more energy to strike the target. Either way, the fact
that this damage is done over time rather than in one
concentrated burst means sandcasters can be an
effective defence against ship lasers.
Since the ‘projectile’ of a laser is light, all the tricks
to manipulate light will work on a laser so long as
they can handle high intensities. This is the primary
reason why people rarely attempt to bounce weapongrade laser beams off mirrors to achieve indirect fire.
In particular, this includes using gravitic lensing to
focus the beam so it remains at deadly intensities
over much longer ranges, although there is almost
never a gravitic lens at the target.

Weapons and Defences

Lasers are by far the most common turret-based
weapon. This is partly due to their use in point defence,
as heavier lasers do not track quickly enough to shoot
down missiles. Laser drills not intended as weapons
have seen use in countless combats as a beam
powerful enough to shred asteroids is entirely capable

A

V

E

Reflective Mirror
(100%)

Electron

L

L

E

of shredding ships, if it can hit. Hybrid approaches
that ‘detune’ a laser for mining then ‘retune’ if combat
happens have seen limited application, generally
winding up stuck in one mode and becoming ineffective
beam lasers or very expensive laser drills.

MISSILES AND TORPEDOES
A logical extreme of drone warfare puts warheads on
disposable craft that hurtle toward a target. Larger
versions are missiles intended for bigger targets, called
torpedoes. There are a variety of warheads, from simple
kinetic-kill intended to capitalise on a missile’s velocity to
explosive penetrators, nuclear, electromagnetic pulse,
decoys, shrapnel interceptors and more.
Missiles have two properties. First, a large volley of
missiles is the most reliable way to destroy a target
in one hit, from beyond the range where most other
weapons can respond. Second, missiles are expensive
and a ship can only carry so many at a time, making
them uneconomical for most commercial ships. Missiles
are generally designed to burn themselves out in
operation with no expectation of recovery. Most missilelike objects intended to be recovered are referred to as
‘probe drones’ or other terms to reflect the difference.
There have been cases where the cost of a volley of
missiles exceeded the price of the asset they destroyed.
One of the defences a small ship has against this is
being less expensive than the missiles and not being
worth expending one. Ship captains intent on annoying
those who possess said swarms would do well to keep
this in mind and limit how annoying they are.
Given their cost, missiles have a reputation as a ‘high
end’ weapon. Common pirates are unlikely to be able
to afford them, if they even have means to obtain
resupply. It is a well-known gambit to fire one missile
– easily shot down – to convince a ship to surrender.

LASER WORKINGS
Atom

Photon

Reflective Mirror
(99%)

Laser
beam

Quartz flash tube

102

R

R

