MISSILE

Sensors and
guidance

M-Drive
Fusion cells (x6)

Warhead

Some ‘dummy’ missiles are designed explicitly for such
scare tactics, with no warhead but instead designed to
miss and be recovered.

SANDCASTERS
Sandcasters throw collections of small particles using
large arrays of tiny slugthrowers. Their primary use is
to block incoming laser fire. Although they cannot be
fired before the laser hits, it is usually perceptible which
direction laser fire will come from and since lasers do
sustained damage over time, sandcasters can block all
but the very start of an attack. This default use slightly
varies the angle of fire from particle-to-particle to make
a more effective blocking cloud.
There are other, less common types of sandcaster
loads. Most fire at high velocity, earning sandcasters
the nickname ‘deadly rainmakers’, although like
slugthrowers this is substantially less than the speed
of light, which greatly limits their effective range. Antipersonnel uses are the most well-known, whether
against would-be boarders or for military ships to give
nearby troops close air support.

The lower cost of sandcaster ammunition makes them
more economical than missile launchers but they
still are frequently disfavoured on commercial ships,
despite their defensive potential. Nonetheless, they
even have non-combat roles, such as loading them
with sprays used for agricultural use or to deploy

PARTICLE ACCELERATORS AND MESON GUNS
Primitive particle accelerators capable of smashing
particles together at point blank ranges under highly
controlled conditions are available even at midindustrial pre-stellar Tech Levels. Those that can
direct a coherent stream of particles at ship combat
ranges, in large enough quantities to inflict significant
damage while being small enough to mount on a typical
starship, require substantially higher technology. Many
of the advances are similar to those that make gauss
weaponry viable and many think of a particle accelerator
as a coilgun with smaller projectiles and higher energies.
However, there are nuances that are well understood,
such as the difference between firing through vacuum,
where particles must charge neutrally or they would
force each other apart enroute to the target, versus
firing through atmosphere, where particles are better
off charged to deflect the air and use it to keep the
particle beam together. Although the particles travel
slower than a laser’s light, they are close enough to
light speed that they can be used in much the same
way. Relativistic time dilation does not matter much to
the particles so long as it does not cause decay before
the payload arrives at the target.
One exception comes in the evolutionary line of particle
accelerators, the meson gun. These fire unstable
particles that disintegrate fractions of a second after
generation. They are not actual mesons, although
the name stuck from early counterintelligence
operations obscuring it. Without relativity, this would
happen shortly after exiting the weapon, if not within
the weapon, giving far too little range to be useful.
Careful control of speed and thus time dilation causes
this decay to happen at much more distant ranges,
spread along a segment of the line of fire. Further
manipulations using an evolution of the nuclear damper
causes the particles to decay over a very narrow band
of time, rather than spread out with an average half-life
as they normally do. As these particles do not interact
with matter until they decay, the result, if properly
aimed, is an explosion along a line segment within
the target regardless of anything in the way, such as

Weapons and Defences

Sandcaster barrels have variable apertures, using
mechanisms similar to time-tested iris valves to
move the magnets that accelerate each particle
further apart or closer together to achieve larger or
smaller diameters. This assists with maintenance and
accommodates variable munition sizes, especially
for alternative sandcaster ammunition. If a particular
barrel malfunctions, it can cycle shut to prevent it from
wasting ammunition then signal the ship’s computer for
maintenance when the sandcaster is not in use. Minute
adjustments to part of the barrel can adjust the aim,
such as shrinking the top or bottom half a little more
than the other to aim vertically, imparting slightly more
acceleration in that direction.

‘smart dust’ sensor microdrone swarms.
One tale tells of a captain who loaded
confetti rounds into his ship’s sandcasters
to help announce his ship’s arrival shortly
after breakout from jump. His ship was
some distance from port, so traffic control
misinterpreted this as debris, thought it
was breaking up from a post-jump mutiny,
and dispatched marines to rescue the
passengers. Things escalated from there.

103

