T

armour, other ships, or even kilometres of solid rock.
Unfortunately, meson weaponry is usually too large or
expensive for practical application aboard small ships.
The meson gun’s ability to bypass any armour or
other defensive systems mean there are virtually no
reliable countermeasures to meson weaponry prior to
the invention of the meson screen, aside from making
sure you are not hit by one. Because of this, the meson
gun earned its Vilani name Gashukubi, translating to
‘certain death’, from the fate of the Vilani scouts who
first met with this weapon. The name proved prophetic;
it was the development of the meson gun by the Terran
Confederation combined with development of the
jump-3 drive, made manifest in the Indomitable-class
battleship, which eventually ended the Interstellar Wars
in the Confederation’s favour.

ION CANNONS

A special type of particle accelerator, ion cannons do
not inflict much damage – radiation or otherwise –
but instead overload a target’s power systems. The
mechanism of operation is quite similar, differing mainly
in the type of particles and that they typically carry a
strong electrical charge.
Usable with fewer consequences than other weapons,
they are only supposed to interrupt power temporarily with
no lasting damage. However, just as ‘stun’ weapons for
personal combat are more accurately described as ‘less
lethal’, so too can ion weaponry cause problems in certain
circumstances. For example, disrupting power, thus
shutting down the manoeuvre drive, on a ship landing on
or taking off from a world may lead to a fatal crash.

Weapons and Defences

PLASMA AND FUSION GUNS

104

Plasma and fusion guns have similar results but
operate differently, although both are a distant
descendent of slugthrowers in that they physically
propel mass to hit a target. Optimised for extremely
high speed and low-mass delivery of graviticallyconfined plasma, these weapons cause damage both
through direct impact energy like a rail cannon and the
input of additional thermal energy.
Plasma guns consist of three main components. The
plasma source provides and superheats gas to high
but non-fusing temperatures. It squeezes through a
high gravity column, which pushes on the sides of
the plasma to minimise movement except along the
intended direction of travel. The end of this column
accelerates this ‘plasma laser’ at the target. The result
falls apart a few seconds after leaving the weapon’s

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

RADIATION

Notably, particle weapons, as well as certain
other types, dose their targets with high amounts
of radiation in addition to dealing conventional
damage. Radiation damage remains somewhat
controversial despite thousands of years of use,
as it has different applications. Specifically, it
sickens and debilitates sophonts, causing them
to suffer if they do not die outright. Lingering
radiation can leave a ship and its cargo unusable
as salvage, which is one of the reasons these
weapons are unpopular among pirates.
Anti-radiation treatment is possible but takes time
and can be expensive. Most shipboard medical
bays, particularly on non-military ships, are
only equipped to treat radiation sickness slowly.
Ship crews that expect to frequently encounter
high radiation, whether in combat situations or
operating near stars that have a high incidence
of solar flares, often upgrade their medical bays
to deal with this. Nuclear dampers can mitigate
the worst of radiation damage but they are of
little use for decontamination.

emitter if it does not strike a target, which limits
effective range. If it does hit, the coherent plasma bolt
does more damage than a dispersed cloud would.
Fusion guns are all of the above but have an
additional component. Plasma weapons lose damage
at range as the superheated gas radiates and cools.
Fusion guns handle this by including an integrated
nuclear damper in the weapon to lower the minimum
temperature to the point the plasma is self-burning
and maintains heat for much longer. The increased
fusion rate lasts long enough to hit a target, unless
an opposing nuclear damper defending the target
overrides this by dramatically increasing the fusion
rate so the bolt burns out before impact.
Viewed as compromise weapons, these have projectile
mass, energy and an effective range between lasers
and slugthrowers.
A fusion weapon can be used as an emergency
power plant, in the same way as an m-drive can be
used as a gravitic forge. It takes work, adding energy-

R

