harvesting equipment, reconfiguring the gravity column
and nuclear damper. It will be less efficient than a
purpose-built fusion power plant of equivalent tonnage
and attempting the conversion runs the risk of making
it unable to serve either purpose, but is an option if
something destroys the main power plant.

SLUGTHROWERS
While this category includes chemically propelled
munitions, most slugthrowers used as ship weapons
feature electromagnetically or gravitically accelerated
projectiles. Effective range is short, making these
useless in most cases; by the time they would be in
range, one side is defeated and the battle is over,
although very fast spacecraft such as fighters can
manoeuvre into range quickly. Limited ammunition
is another drawback, although most carry enough
to last for multiple engagements. Typically used for
orbital bombardment, these have the inertia of a kinetic
slug and can cope with atmospheric interface better
than many energy weapons; a laser weapon firing
through a raincloud or similar will bleed off energy,
reducing potential damage. However, even purposebuilt bombardment ships often prefer the versatility of
missiles or the precise fire of meson guns.

TRACTORS/PRESSORS

DEFENCE SYSTEMS
The best defence is to avoid areas where others are
shooting, preferably to be nowhere near combat. Alas,
this is not always possible. In addition to defensive
weapons such as sandcasters listed above, listed below
are some active defence measures one can take.

POINT DEFENCE

Shooting incoming projectiles to detonate or deflect
them before they strike is an art form unto itself. Turretmounted lasers accomplish point defence but there
are alternatives such as high rate of fire slugthrowers.
There are special point defence turrets available for

ELECTRONIC WARFARE AND STEALTH

Electronic warfare covers techniques including
sensory overload and decoy signals, intended to
confuse enemy sensors. It is primarily used against
missiles, as it can take but a moment’s course
correction to send one missile into others in its volley
or cause it to miss entirely. This can throw off enemy
targeting at ranges of hundreds or thousands of
kilometres. Despite the name, ‘electronic’ warfare
covers magnetic and gravitic techniques and for every
type of sensor, there is a jammer.
Where one can establish a data connection to a hostile
target, one can attempt to hack an enemy ship’s
computers, known as the ‘DataCaster’ approach. In
combat, one can assume the enemy ship will ignore
such efforts – unfortunately, sending data toward a foe
is useless if the foe is not listening.

NUCLEAR DAMPERS AND MESON SCREENS

‘Nuclear damper’ is a generic term for several devices
that project nodes and antinodes that enhance or to
degrade the strong or weak nuclear force, such as by
projecting fields of quarks that mediate these forces.
When used in reference to ship defences the term
usually means ones that degrade the strong nuclear
force at some distance from a ship, upsetting the
fine-tuning that allows nuclear weapons to achieve
supercriticality and cause chain reactions that create
their explosive power. These devices can also inhibit
the fusion reactions the weapons rely on for part of
their destructive power. Meson screens are a variant
that prevent meson decay, causing incoming mesons to
skip through the protected ship and explode harmlessly
outside. As non-military ships rarely encounter these
weapons, such defences are rarely worth installation.
Far more small ship crews will be familiar with the
miniature and lower TL nuclear dampers that are part
of modern fusion power plants than with versions
designed for ship defence. Nuclear dampers too shortranged and weak for ship defence are also used in
antiradiation treatments in well-stocked TL10 medical
bays. Belters safely mine radioactive ores using nondefence-grade nuclear dampers. Range and power
issues aside, shipyards cannot repurpose these for
ship defence because they are too specialised. For
instance, ones optimised to promote beta decay for
neutron manufacture will not defuse most nuclear
weapons but might detonate them.

Weapons and Defences

Among the mechanically simplest of weapons, these
‘broadcast’ gravity in the direction of the target, to either
attract or repel it. Installers use reinforced mountings,
to make sure these units do not tear out of the ship.
Some of the techniques usable for enhancing radio
communications are applicable to tractor and pressor
beams, enhancing range. Smaller versions of these are
common among belter ships to draw in ores blasted free
by laser drills, although these are too small for offensive
use. Generally, only those large enough to mount in
turrets or larger installations offer combat capabilities.

larger ships, which are incompatible with standard
turrets but perform better at the expense of only being
useful for this purpose.

105

