T

Nuclear dampers are versatile tools. A nuclear damper
can prevent a fusion or fission power plant from starting
up, force one into shutdown or damage it through
power fluctuations. This is usually not possible in
space battle, as even the largest damper weapon has
to compete with the target’s fusion sparkplug and the
damper has the disadvantage of range. An ultra-heavy
missile might carry one or a raider craft might use one
at boarding range but the most common offensive use
is at starports. A vehicle with a nuclear damper can
drive up to a ship when the crew is not paying attention
and prevent them from powering up and leaving. This is
akin to gravitic restraints, with the benefit that a trapped
ship cannot power its weapons and fire at starport
personnel until released.

BLACK GLOBES

Weapons and Defences

These devices of Ancients origin project a spherical
force field at adjustable radii around the projector.
This globe absorbs energy passing through in either
direction, including visible light. Projectiles stop dead
relative to the globe, their kinetic energy having been
absorbed. Some of the first examples were set to
small enough radii that the people who powered them
up were cut in half. Authorities quickly distributed
recognition manuals and safe testing procedures to
keep that from happening again. Most ships have
standard library software from the Travellers’ Aid
Society, which includes these manuals, preventing
future dismemberment.

106

Transferring this energy to capacitors is the main
weakness of the system as the capacitors can only
hold so much, although they slowly discharge energy
while switching off the globe. If the capacitors exceed
their capacity they shatter, explosively releasing the
stored energy. A secondary weakness is that energy
absorption is total and bidirectional. Incoming sensory
impressions are blocked just as incoming weapons
fire, so the protected ship is flying blind. Gravitic
energy is likewise absorbed, preventing manoeuvre
drives from interacting with the universe beyond the
globe, so the protected ship is drifting rather than
flying, hopefully not deep within a gravity well. A
common workaround is to set globes to flicker, firing
weapons and drives when the globe will be down,
although this gives a random chance as to whether
the globe provides any protection.
The Third Imperium’s most advanced labs have
been able to fabricate prototypes, with speculation
about more advanced forms such as a white globe

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

that radiates energy while in use. These systems are
generally not available for sale for any number of
Credits. Favours or theft are required to obtain one.

SOFTWARE ASSISTANCE
Most cultures that invented computers before
interstellar contact were already quite familiar with
computers’ utility for fire control at long ranges. The
longer ranges and higher velocities of space combat
only exacerbate the difficulty of directing fire to hit a
target. Computers are unable to perform as well as
sophonts in many shipboard tasks but combat stands
out as the exception.
Alas, top end military software and the computers that
run it are expensive. Successful commercial operations
avoid frequent combat, with the costly repairs it entails,
so there is much less opportunity to recover these
costs. The best sharpshooter that money can buy may
be a program but even military ships can rarely afford
the highest rated software. Only the personal ships of
nobles and the similarly wealthy may have it.
Mid-range and low-end assistance is another story.
There are countless armed merchant ships where the
only decent shot aboard is the computer, with crew
involved only to select and confirm targets. Sensor
operation and piloting are tasks that computers can
handle with the proper software, as noted under Drones
and Virtual Crew on page 64.
This is rarely adjustable during combat, save to
select which program is running should a ship have
more software than available computer power. There
is usually a best answer for any given situation; for
instance, unless a jump is happening or will soon
happen, there is probably no need to allocate resources
to run Jump Control. The time to decide on appropriate
software assistance is while in port before heading into
dangerous territory.

MANOEUVRING

A first year pilot may think their job consists only of
flying a ship from point A to point B, sitting back if
and when combat happens since there is no way to
dodge incoming fire. This is not the case, as a pilot’s
performance can prevent their ship’s gunners from
doing their job. During a fight, a good pilot will position
the ship to allow all weapons to fire on their targets,
spinning the ship as needed to bring each weapon to
bear while the others recharge, all while evading in
non-predictable patterns to minimise successful enemy

R

