attacks. While dodging may be difficult to impossible,
not being where the enemy expects the ship to be is
more feasible. As the crews of many planet-bound
vehicles can attest, gunners and pilots must have clear
communication during a battle. This is why military
ships run with one gunner on the bridge, although they
have a backup gunner at the gun in case of interruption
of communications. Small non-military ships need a
single gunner per turret as most damage that would
shut down intercoms would disable the gun if not
destroy the ship. Further, crew tend to have personal
communicators that can serve as a backup.
Techniques passed down through the ages eventually
recorded, digitised and programmed into commonly
available software help with combat tactics. It
ultimately comes down to reading the situation and
selecting the best course of action. Sometimes this

INFORMATION
The key to all of this is knowing the enemy.
Identifying the type of ship that is attacking
provides information that can help the captain
and crew decide which tactics help. What
weapons does it have and what are their
ranges? Which ship is faster? If your ship is
slower, can you reach jump limit, port or other
safety before the enemy reaches weapon range?
If your ship is as fast or faster, you can simply
run away, preventing combat so long as hostile
intent is deduced before the enemy gets close
enough to fire. Small non-military ships rarely
have the firepower to destroy an attacker before
the attacker can inflict significant damage, other
than through use of missiles.

DOGFIGHTING

Almost everyone has seen recreations of fighters
executing dizzying manoeuvres around enemy capital
ships, dashing in and out of turret fire that cannot keep
up, while crippling the larger weapons that have no
hope of coming to bear.
Not as many know that 100 and 200 ton ships are
perfectly capable of this, should any much larger ship
close in. Dogfighting is about relative size; while small
ships may not be built for dogfighting, they can be
more manoeuvrable than capital ships. Large ships,
particularly military ships, will try to fire from long
range precisely to avoid this. A dogfighting ship that
can outmanoeuvre a larger ship effectively disables
any weapon not mounted on a turret. This only works
against single large ships, which is why capital ships fly
with escorts. Additionally, it only protects the dogfighting
ship while it is close, assuming it can dodge fire from

Weapons and Defences

Getting this kind of data is the job of the sensop.
However, many ships do not have someone
to operate the sensors. In these situations, it
behoves the pilot to analyse every significant
sensor contact encountered while at some
distance from port. Aside from breaking up the
monotony of travel, this can provide early and
perhaps the only warning of an incoming pirate.
Likewise, do not assume that every ping of active
sensors scanning your ship indicates hostile
activity; they may be just as wary of you as you
are of them. If the computer says they have a
weapons lock, it is time to run if you still can.

can be just turning the ship slightly to make sure
weapons can target better. Other times a ship needs
to outmanoeuvre the enemy and escape. These
decisions often take split second reflexes to input the
commands or allow a fast computer to execute a series
of commands to the ship required to outmanoeuvre or
outgun an enemy.

107

