T

turrets. Even with these countermeasures, dogfighting
can still be useful to buy time, potentially enough to
dock and board; assaulting a cruiser full of marines is
easier than trying to survive point blank shots from a
spinal mount weapon, although only barely.

BOARDING ACTIONS
Boarding a ship is generally done only for one of two
reasons – to capture the ship or something on the ship.
Taking things on a ship is the mainstay of pirates
and slavers. Pirates usually will allow a crew to
survive and limp back to port, perhaps to soothe
their losses with insurance. Some pirate operations
amount to elaborate insurance scams. Slavers who
do not seize the ship will leave enough crew on
board to manoeuvre the ship home, often only taking
passengers or skilled but nonessential personnel such
as medics. Their objective either way is to board the
ship, obtain their loot and leave quickly.

Weapons and Defences

Those who wish to seize a ship are a different matter.
Their objective is to board then take over the vital control
areas, generally engineering and the bridge, from
where they can lock down the rest of the vessel and
snuff out any remaining resistance. Many are willing to
release passengers and any crew who do not fight back.
However, enough cases of raiders taking everyone as
slaves make many crews fight back to the last.

108

Boarders must first gain access to a ship. Unless the
crew can be talked into shutting down their engines,
this requires either a very fast boarding vessel, ion
weaponry or severely damaging the ship. The latter
risks damaging or destroying whatever the boarders
came for and only the most novice pirates do this.
Unfortunately, piracy is an occupation with high enough
turnover that there are always plenty of novices.
Once boarders have access, the defenders have
limited options. Repelling boarding only means the
pirates are free to try again. Convincing the boarders to
give up, exhausting their personnel, or counterboarding
are the most viable options. The latter two are similar,
as they both involve taking out most or all of the
boarding crew, the difference being whether this is
done on the target ship or on the boarding ship.
A small ship will face two common boarding situations.
First, custom officers present to obtain information
that, assuming there is no contraband, costs the crew

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

nothing but time. Second is when being threatened by
pirates, where it makes sense to dump cargo overboard
if one cannot outrun, evade or otherwise escape them.
It saves time and reduces risk for both sides, so many
pirates accept this measure even if there is a chance
the target ship is withholding the most valuable goods.
When exceptions are encountered or if contraband
is aboard, a true boarding action will follow. Typically,
boarders will attempt to access the bridge and
engineering spaces while defeating the target’s security
systems. It is sometimes possible to bypass security
if an attacker is familiar with the nature of a target’s
procedures. Even in the Third Imperium, this is not
always the case; what is popular around Capital can
be wildly different from Terra or Regina, and current
practices at all three can vary greatly from what was
popular a century ago.
In an emergency, such as if the bridge is disabled,
the ship can be operated from any engineering
console. Some ships refer to this as an ‘emergency
helm’ or ‘emergency bridge’. The most common use
is to directly operate the power plant and manoeuvre
drive, in an attempt to move the ship somewhere to fix
enough to restore bridge control. Normally, systems
are programmed so bridge consoles will override
engineering consoles, which may surprise those who
think that engineering would have priority. Disabling the
drives is possible regardless of the bridge’s wishes, as
that falls under emergency shutdown procedures.

MUTINY
A mutiny is a special type of boarding action. While ships
have safeguards to minimise risk, small ships can only
take so many steps as crew need to be able to perform
their jobs. The best defence a captain has against a

BEING BOARDED
If your ship is being boarded by anyone other
than slavers and you are a passenger or
otherwise not expected to defend the ship,
take shelter wherever you are, only moving if
someone tells you to. If the boarders are not
here for you and you are no threat to them, their
jobs are easier and your life will be longer.

R

