mutiny is to ensure the crew never has cause to do so.
Ensure they are kept informed of decisions and the
reasoning behind those decisions, have opportunities
to vent grievances regularly, give the option to leave at
ports of call and make sure those who file complaints
know someone is addressing their issues.
Justifiable mutinies follow a generally accepted set of
rules. Those who are thinking of mutiny should read
this subsection first and weigh the consequences.
Unless the situation is urgent, it is better to discuss the
issue civilly or wait until port and leave the ship.
There must be just cause, generally either intentional
breach of contract or a major Imperial law. Mutiny over
a traffic ticket is not acceptable, mutiny due to the
captain failing to distribute pay for the past month and
not letting crew disembark at ports is. Slavery, murder,
maiming, hostage-taking or conclusive evidence of
intent to do so can constitute just cause.
The mutiny must use proportionate means and not
cause more harm than it would prevent. Falling a
month behind on payroll does not warrant shooting the
captain. It is better to inform the authorities at the next
port, who may be able to help, possibly even award the
ship or a portion of the cargo to the crew depending
on circumstances. It is easier to fix back pay while
in port than mid-jump. Likewise, crashing a ship to
prevent delivery of cargo does not help solve this issue,
although crashing a ship to prevent deployment of
nuclear weapons against populations can be justified.
The crew must turn the ship over to a legitimate authority
such as a starport’s security team as soon as is practicable.
Turning over the ship after a month of trading on the
owner’s dime is not ‘as soon as is practicable’.

ORTILLERY

Ortillery, from ‘orbital artillery’, refers to the practice
of bombarding targets on a world with ship weapons
from orbit.

For the most part, this is something a small ship
should never do if the world has any population, which
is usually a prerequisite for having something worth
attacking. While a captain and crew may consider an
undeveloped world to have no way of immediately
retaliating, one of the first things most starports build
is the ability to deflect asteroids from hitting the planet,
typically by blowing them into tiny chunks or vaporising
them enough to alter their course. This firepower is
more than enough to retaliate against a small ship that
chooses bombardment from orbit.
If done in the Third Imperium, a lone ship declaring war
against a populated world is usually in contravention of
the Imperial Rules of War, meaning any Imperial Navy
ship now views it as an enemy combatant. Causing
the Third Imperium to declare war upon one’s ship
and oneself rarely amounts to anything more than a
particularly determined method of suicide. It rarely
even gets much mention in the news, beyond reports
of the atrocity that started the affair. It is certainly not an
honourable way to go.
Dictators who run their worlds by paying passing
starships to ‘rough up’ villages where dissidents gather
are often more trouble than the Credits are worth.
Whether large like the Third Imperium or smaller
like the Julian Protectorate, if this is in or near any
functioning interstellar polity, it is probable that the
polity intends to remove that dictator before too long.
Removal often has negative consequences, generally
execution, for anyone who recently helped said dictator
harm their people.

Weapons and Defences

Finally, the crew must accept whatever judgement
authorities provide. This is often a sticking point with
many; just because a crew took over a ship does not
mean it is now theirs.

In many cases, the target has no means of firing
back, rendering this a simple act of demolition. While
energy weapons lose power when firing through an
atmosphere, their unlimited ammunition means the
bombarding ship can park high above the target and
take its time razing it if there is no effective opposition,
for as long as power plant fuel remains. Given enough
time, a single turret laser could eventually turn a city
to craters and slag, save vaults, armoured, or other
particularly tough areas. While typical ship sensors can
find sophonts in the open at this range it can be difficult
to find those hiding indoors. Since killing everyone in
an area is the usual reason a small ship would engage
in ortillery, thorough demolition of any structures at the
target location is often called for. If desiring immediate
destruction, most prefer slugthrowers or missiles,
although this is rare outside of military operations.

109

