AMENITIES
While some ships provide the bare necessities, many
ship captains realise the importance of amenities to
keep morale high through the endless voids of space.
The old joke that ‘the thrashings will continue until
morale improves’ proves resoundingly false. Some
try to implement that system only for it to inevitably
backfire, making their crew less effective. A crew’s
morale improves when they have items aboard that
make their life easier both on and off duty, resulting in
better performance. While most of these options do not
come standard, shipyards can implement them if there
is room aboard the ship and enough Credits set aside.

The bed will most often be a bunk bed, potentially built
into a wall. Rooms occupied by a pair of sophonts
who wish to share their bed commonly see the upper
bunk dismounted and placed alongside the lower
bunk, or sometimes just replaced with a larger bed,
shifting storage into the space the upper bunk used
to occupy. The fresher is in an enclosed or partitioned
area, either attached to and only accessible from the
stateroom or right outside. Some layouts that use the
‘right outside’ option share freshers among staterooms
to save space. On these ships, any high or luxury
stateroom has its own fresher.

WORKSTATION ERGONOMICS

Other options include a storage space such as a
closet, cabinet and/or shelves. A chair and desk with
wall-mounted monitors that can access the ship’s
computer is common. Mini-kitchens are a frequent
choice, often installed as default, but these rarely
consist of more than a countertop, microwave and
water dispenser, sometimes in folding units stowed
overhead when not in use.

A wide variety of workstations are available on ships
where the operator stands, sits or is strapped into a
harness within reach of controls. Something as simple
as moving a commonly used control button closer to
the operator’s seat can help improve efficiency and
morale. Making sure a conduit has a sturdy ladder to
descend to the master cut-off switch also falls under
this category. For workstations that require the operator
to stand, the consensus is to assign either comfortable
shoes or decking pads to minimise fatigue. Making sure
all items in the armoury are properly organised makes
inventory and maintenance easier, and helps crew find
items quickly when under attack.

STATEROOM OPTIONS
A stateroom is a crew’s home aboard ship. While many
captains and starship owners only take the crew’s
working comfort into account, their time off is just as
important. While some crew employ vast amounts of
creativity to maximise available space, others only
need a small vase with flowers to consider their room
peaceful. The contents of a stateroom depend on the
needs of whoever resides within it.

STANDARD COMPONENTS

A standard stateroom will have, at a minimum, a bed,
access to a fresher and life support for two sophonts,
even if designed for single occupancy. Everything else
is optional and varies from ship to ship.

110

Some crew spend all their non-working hours in
their stateroom, while others only use it for sleep.
The degree of personalisation can indicate how
long someone has been aboard or expects to be
aboard. Many crew members personalise their room
immediately while others used to constantly changing
staterooms or ships may never unpack, no matter
how long their stay.

HIGH OR LUXURY COMPONENTS
Standard staterooms are often plainly furnished with
only basic decorations. High and luxury staterooms have
many themes available from the shipyard, from antique
seafaring wooden planks lining the walls to holographic
projections that make the room seem bigger.
While the three ships outlined in the Ship Walkthrough
chapter come with standard staterooms, many ship
owners take unused staterooms and combine them
into high or luxury staterooms. On top of the increase
in size, there are quality upgrades to components and
capabilities of the room. Environmental systems have
better air filtration, the mini-kitchen is expanded, the
bed’s softness is adjustable and the room typically
has a theme that ties colours and materials together

