for a pleasing atmosphere. For some packages,
expanding the shower to fit two sophonts makes it less
claustrophobic and more inviting. Communal showers
fitting more than two at a time are rare, particularly on
small ships. Certain other upgrades do not actually
enlarge the stateroom but devote extra space to
support machinery or storage for deployable fittings,
such as a bed that takes much of the room when folded
out but folds away into a closet one quarter as large.
On occasion, luxury staterooms may be more
extensively customised, such as by installing bushes
and trees to make it look like a miniature forest or
covering everything in water-resistant surfaces and
setting the humidity on high. This requires advanced
knowledge of who will be occupying the stateroom, as
well as access to materials.
As they consume more space on a ship, shipyards
more often build high and luxury staterooms for
double occupancy. This is rarely a detriment for single
occupants as they can sleep on one side of a bed
made for two and either ignore the second desk or offer
its seat to guests. Shipyards may install options found
in common areas in the most luxurious of staterooms,
depending on space needed and the occupants’ tastes.

MINI-KITCHEN
The standard stateroom comes with a mini-kitchen built
into the wall that contains a small oven, a fold out shelf
used as a table and a filtered water dispenser. Designed
for pre-packaged rations, it can be utilised by cooks who
do not have the luxury of a common area with galley or
prefer to fix their own food. The crew brings food from
the galley or cargo bay and either reheats it in the oven
or serves it at storage temperature. Crew who enjoy cold
snacks will invariably find the shortest practical route
from storage to stateroom.

FRESHERS
Most sophonts are familiar with the concept of freshers
from a very young age. Standard freshers have all
the necessary items including a waste collection unit,
washing station and shower for keeping the user clean.
While designers fashioned the fresher around human

The waste collection unit provides an adjustable
support area to help sit or stand comfortably, then
gets rid of the waste in a safe and hygienic way.
Above the waste collection unit, the fold down
washing station utilises ultrasonic waves and air
to quickly wash and dry extremities. The Imperial
standard is to be adjustable to accommodate paws,
tentacles and larger or smaller hands.
A sonic shower concentrates on using ultrasonic waves
and air to clean whatever is inside. As with the smaller
wash stations, some versions use water or steam instead.
Versions aside, one need only step into the area and
the shower will wash and dry automatically within five
minutes. Similar to decontamination chambers, doctors
may add additional airborne antibacterial agents to the
regular wash if needed. Likewise, these chambers can
be set to report to the ship’s medic the extracted material
analysis, although only on a general analytical level.

Amenities

In high or luxury staterooms, dining option upgrades are
usually the most visible changes. It is common to add
a desk or full table and chairs, along with a larger and
more noticeable oven. Some captains and crew who
prefer to do all their work from inside their stateroom opt
for expansive upgrades, such as installing refrigeration
devices and food storage. Stewards will typically refill
passenger stateroom food storage.

parameters, it is adjustable to fit sophonts of similar
size and structure to Humaniti. Ships built by cultures
outside the Imperium will have freshers made to their
own standards.

PASSENGER STATEROOMS
Non-crew staterooms are normally devoted to paying
passengers. Although some crew will concentrate on
their own staterooms first, allowing staterooms meant

111

