T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Guest quarter decoration often focuses on painting the
walls, as well as providing small trinkets and pieces of
art to make the room seem friendlier.

PASSENGER-BROKERS
Some luxury staterooms have extra-wide doors.
Despite the common joke, this is not primarily
to cater to obese passengers. Rather, it is to
permit passage of larger cargo containers.
Some bring more than a full displacement ton,
accepting cramped conditions in their luxury
stateroom in order to ship more cargo for
the same cost and time. This is technically in
violation of the passage contract but usually
ignored, as it causes no problems so long as
the extra cargo fits within the stateroom and
through passageways, while such passengers
rarely place the extreme demands on the
stewards. Lesser levels of passengers should
expect fees for or refusal to carry excess
baggage and even those willing to pay luxury
rates should ask the ship’s captain rather than
assume this will be allowed.

Amenities

In many areas, high society looks down on
passenger-brokers, occasionally leading to
unpleasant confrontations if passenger-brokers
and other high passengers are on the same ship.
To avoid this, some passenger liners will only
take one type or the other on any given trip. As a
courtesy and out of caution, ships that take both
passenger-brokers and speculative cargo at the
same time traditionally avoid taking the same
type of cargo as their passengers, except with
permission of those passengers.

112

for passengers to slip their minds, these need attention
to make sure the stateroom has everything the sophont
wants as well as keeping them occupied and happy.
A typical experience is of a tastefully decorated
room, the floor space empty aside from furniture. A
passage purchase grants a limited amount of cargo
space allotment and while some ships arrange this as
large closets attached to passenger staterooms most
allocate part of the cargo hold. The former affords more
privacy while the latter facilitates handling of larger
cargo, particularly useful for ‘passenger-brokers’ who
purchase high passage to bring along a ton of trade
goods for sale at the destination, intending to earn a
profit substantially higher than the price of passage.

Quality depends on the clientele the ship wishes
to transport. There are ships devoted to luxury
transportation of passengers but small size ships
typically focus on poorer clientele as they usually lack
amenities to keep richer guests entertained. This is why
ships such as the Empress Marava carry low berths,
hauling the poorest sophonts in stasis without having
to add facilities to the ship. Many compare low berths
to shipping human cargo. As the saying goes, ‘Cargo
doesn’t complain. Passengers do.’

PERSONAL PREFERENCE

As noted in the Life Support chapter, every stateroom
has its own climate control for the occupant to adjust
temperature and humidity. Some sophonts prefer to
sleep in a cold room under blankets or in a hot room
with a fan. When fans and blankets are not enough and
the sophont requires more extreme changes, a ship
can dedicate tonnage to extra environmental controls,
even providing an airlock to transition between the rest
of the ship and the modified stateroom. Each stateroom
is self-contained as well, so crew who like high humidity
can live in peace next to others who prefer a dry desert.
A degree of sonic isolation is likewise standard, so a
passenger whose room is adjacent to the power plant
or drives might never know. High and luxury staterooms
have even more controls, mostly for upgrades to basic
furniture such as heated beds and chairs.
As many shipyards say, ‘what they want in their
stateroom, stays in their stateroom'. Becoming a
mantra of sorts, a subculture of individuals samples
amenities available across a number of ships in their
quest for a perfect environment. While most sophonts
have a variety of wants and needs, they mostly look for
something that is relaxing and comfortable. The captain
who fulfils this will have a happy and productive crew.

BRIDGE-STATEROOMS
Any ship design needs to minimise wasted space.
There have been countless attempts to do away
entirely with passageways, internal doors and other
non-functional areas. The logical extreme, a vessel that
is simply one large room, can be realised if the vessel
will only open into breathable atmosphere, needs no
internal privacy or containment and a few other factors
that are not generally true for starships. Designers
succeed with this design on some small craft and grav
vehicles but privacy and operational concerns make
the need for multiple rooms on a large ship evident.

R

