For small ships, especially where the entire crew
comprises only one or two sophonts with a high degree
of trust, the generally agreed-upon practical minimum
is five rooms, not counting ordinarily-crew-inaccessible
spaces such as the fuel tank.
1. The airlock must be enclosed; otherwise, it will not
function as an airlock.
2. The engineering section is best enclosed to contain
smells, sounds, leaks and potential accidents.
3. Even on a single-crew ship, the fresher is best
enclosed to contain smells and facilitate cleaning.
4. Enclosing the bridge is mainly done in case of
video or holographic communication, to allow
a professional background to be presented
rather than showing a messy kitchen or bunk to
employers and business contacts. Designers of
ships with less professional intent sometimes do
not separate the bridge from the sleeping area but
frequently add a mission-specific room, such as a
separate cargo hold.
5. This leaves sleeping, exercise, and food areas,
which can be part of the same room. On most ships
designed this way, the other four rooms connect
only to this room. Sometimes the bridge or missionspecific room can be accessed directly from the
airlock and some engineering spaces connect to
the bridge but this area remains a central hub the
rest of the ship is designed around.
While none of the three ships showcased in this book
are that minimalistic, small ships laid out in this fashion
do exist. Adding more capabilities, such as turrets,
more crew, more cargo space and other items, adds
the need for more enclosures.

COMMON AREA OPTIONS

Food and drink is the first. A typical commons has
the ability to make, heat, render safe and serve
food and drink using standard cooling, heating and
storage devices. Some galleys are so simple they
only dispense rations to the crew without variation,
although this tends to cause discontent. Gourmet
kitchens cannot fulfil this need by themselves, as they
require a knowledgeable steward. Many ships prefer to
install an amenity that requires less skill to use; a wet
bar, stocking the crew’s favourite drinks and liquors. If
supplies run low during a jump, a crew could benefit
from adding a microbrewery and distillery. Some crews
even take pride in their unique flavoured beers and
wines, sharing them as a token of trust with others.
Entertainment is the next category. Of the three, it
is the most frequent first upgrade for a ship, largely
due to how easy entertainment options are to install
and an advanced entertainment system to create
VR gaming rooms is very popular. However, no
matter the advances to virtual entertainment options,
there remains demand for live action theatre. Larger
ships, especially liners, may have professional live
entertainers but smaller ships with theatres rely on the
crew to be multi-talented. Many ship owners who are
fans of this form of entertainment gladly give up the
required space, whether the crew prefers it or not.
The third category is sometimes labelled ‘training’
or ‘fitness’ and generally deals with exercising or
conditioning the mind or body. The most prevalent
installation on smaller ships is a gym with exercise
equipment, sometimes augmented with a hot tub or
sauna. Another example, frequently seen on ships
whose crews expect personal combat, is a gun range
with holographic targets. Occasionally, theatres are
set up with mannequins or robots to help crew practice
melee combat forms.

Amenities

The commons are a gathering place for the crew to
interact while off duty. A good commons can satisfy
their needs for socialisation, food and entertainment,
thus keeping morale high. While common areas for
each ship in a class start out identical, with features
rarely changed or upgraded, they become a true
reflection of the crew, unique to every ship. A tidy and
spotless commons may signify a tidy steward or crew
that use their time in pursuits other than socialising. A
commons with many scrapes and dents on the walls
may denote a rowdy crew, while assigned seating at
the galley may be indicative of a strict officer system
where crew only socialise with their own rank. Once the
ship is in use, the commons absorb the crew’s tastes,
so to truly know a crew one must visit the commons
while touring the ship.

While the possible amenities installed in a commons
are vast, shipyards have templates for the most popular
customisation options. Many were specified by ship
or shipyard crews after the ship class was created, in
some cases included in updated versions of the ship’s
starship engineering package. They typically fall under
three categories and it is commonly believed that to
best help the morale of crew and any passengers, a
ship needs something from all three.

Mental training falls within this category. While anyone
can sit in their quarters and read, ships may install
a dedicated library; some libraries devote space to
hardcopy books, others to equipment to enhance
reading and absorbing information, while still more
use the space for a dedicated database with a truly

113

