T

prodigious amount of reference documents. A few small
ship crews use theatres as diplomatic training facilities
with holographic simulations from a given culture, to
study how best to interact with the people of a world.

UNCOMMON COMMONS
Ships without proper commons will see other areas
put to the same uses within a few jumps; people
need to eat somewhere, cleaning clothes and dishes
happens at some location, and most sophonts express
the desire to be social from time-to-time even if the
particulars vary by culture.
However, substitute commons do not perform as well.
This is evident in the Suleiman design, which has an
office but no commons – so the office gets used as
commons. Crews of these ships have a measurably
higher average demand for shore leave. It should be
noted that many ‘offices’, especially on small ships, are
repurposed bridge space, providing the minimum space
needed to have a private conversation.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

PETS
Having an animal companion aboard can have results
ranging from ‘great for morale’ to ‘proximate cause of
the ship’s destruction’. While many crew find interesting
animals on their journeys they would love to keep, not
all can be domesticated as pets.
If the crew acquires a pet, give it the recommended
medical treatments for shipboard life. In most cases
this includes implanting a transponder to quickly
find it. Checking this transponder must become part
of the take-off checklist, alongside making sure all
crew are aboard. The transponder can interface with
door controls and it is typical to give pets open-uponapproach access to low-security doors but never to
airlocks, so they cannot exit the ship unescorted.
These treatments induce sterility; unexpected
offspring can be a significant problem if discovered
in port, let alone mid-jump. Likewise, even if having
multiple pets allows them to play with each other,
most small ships are ill suited to house more than
two or three at a time.

Amenities

The crew must tame and train a pet to act
appropriately aboard ship. Specifically bred ship’s
cats are genetically disposed toward proper behaviour
but this is not the case for all species. Wild animals
are not tame and many have no capacity for training.
Urination or defecation in the wrong place or chewing
the wrong wire can disable a jump field mid-jump.
A properly trained pet is no more likely to engage in
excessively destructive behaviour than a non-feral
sophont. However, even with proper training, expect a
pet to bring minor chaos which, if managed properly,
can improve morale.

114

R

