Whatever pet the crew decides to have, it will need
daily maintenance and upkeep to keep the pet healthy
and happy. The most frequently overlooked issue
with pets is that most have more restricted diets
than most sophonts. While some animals adapt to
a different diet over time, feeding a vegetarian pet
meat can cause them to be very sick, likely all over
the deck or crew quarters. Clean water or whatever
hydration the pet requires is vital. Most pets can adapt
easily to standard temperatures and air pressures,
although some require aquarium tanks and controlled
temperatures to be comfortable. While humans have
adapted to climate controlled mobile vehicles, a large
space is best for a pet to exercise and explore. That
is why most ship crews prefer pets that can exercise
themselves by wandering through the ship instead of
having their own holding tank. These pets frequently
become the ship’s mascot.

EXERCISE AND SPORTS
Most small ships focus on one-on-one activities like
board, card or video games to exercise the brain, while
others adapt spare cargo or common area space to
play games that require more room. This exercise is
vital not only for morale but also to maintain the crew’s
physical and mental agility. Temperance is vital, as the
crew should not feel forced to participate in activities
but not giving them places to exercise both mind and
body will cause harm.

Virtual reality can help keep crew and passengers
entertained at a fraction of the cost of refitting the ship.
While most ships are not equipped with VR software, a
passenger or crew can easily bring their own aboard.
A typical starship has enough computing power to run
the most popular VR games available and terminals
located in staterooms and workstations can link to
standard ports on a variety of headsets and wafer jacks
to escape from reality or challenge the mind.
If in the mood for something more relaxing, some of the
cheapest VR software uses audio and visual themes
to help find a perfect relaxation spot, perhaps on a
popular beach listening to the waves or a snowy tundra
under an aurora. Naturistic sounds such as those
from a sophont’s homeworld can help calm and relax,
assisting in better work or sleep. Some first time users
report difficulty getting used to wearing a headset while
sleeping, so sophonts wishing to start this practice are
advised to start for a day or two when they can afford
poor sleep, although this can be sidestepped by those
with wafer jacks or neural links.
While single player VR games are far more common,
there are multiplayer games that can be played from
one’s stateroom by linking to a participating world’s
‘shard’, a set of servers that players log onto, albeit
limited by communication lag time. Players on a moon
might have a two second round trip lightspeed lag
communicating with a shard on the world, making them
unable to participate in events that require sub-second
reactions, so a moon and its world would receive their
own shards. Some ships promote bonding by running
group exploration-type VR games during jumps.
Many ship captains who seek out VR games do so
for educational or training capabilities. Training for
military manoeuvres or learning a new language is
easily accomplished with the right software, although
purchases of advanced software with primarily military
applications are monitored by the Imperium. Cultural
simulations that a diplomat or broker might use to
familiarise themselves with a destination world are
less monitored, although these can see military use in
planning psychological operations. While it may take
shopping at a few starports to obtain the VR software
needed, it is worth it to keep the crew trained, informed
and relaxed during a voyage.

Amenities

Another type of ship activity to keep the crew’s
reflexes sharp during jumps is a variant of laser tag
or paintball in a portion of the ship. The crew should
never designate the bridge and engineering areas
for this; cargo holds and extensive commons are
much better. Ammunition for this varies between
foam, ink and low-powered lasers that interact with
electronic sensors worn by the players. This game
typically divides the crew into two opposing teams,
although free-for-all fights can work. Studies have
shown that crews who engage in this activity know
the interior of their ship better and can use it to repel
intruders more easily. When all or most of those
aboard participate, the play area sometimes includes
corridors, with spectators remaining in out-of-play
areas such as staterooms.

VR GAMES AND THEMES

115

