CREW ROLES
Many consider a ship’s crew one of its most important
systems. There are many guides, most written from the
perspective of large and/or military ship crews, covering
standard positions. This chapter exists to inform the
reader about things often left out of said guides which
matter to small ship crews.

THE DIVISION OF LABOUR
Anyone who has spent much time aboard a starship is
familiar with crew dividing labour, each person having
certain tasks. It may only take one person to pilot even
the largest of ships but they will not have a ship to
pilot for long if the engineer ignores instabilities in the
manoeuvre drive or does not supervise the power plant.
On small ships, these and other critical tasks take little
enough effort that the pilot can do them while piloting.
How big a ship can be before it becomes ‘large’ is a
matter of when this becomes impractical. There is
quite a difference between two people operating a 200
ton ship and the double digit crew of a 2,000 ton ship,
even if both are regarded as ‘small’ by a member of the
thousand-strong crew of a 200,000 ton ship.
Some crew roles are vital to almost all ships. Some
only matter on certain types of spacecraft, such as
astrogation which is rarely employed outside of jumpcapable ships. Other roles depend on the size of the
vessel; a full time steward is normally only needed
for ships that have enough passengers, which
implies the ship is large enough to carry that many
people. However, the crew needs to perform all roles
aboard a ship to keep it running and the smaller the
ship’s crew, the more tasks fall outside someone’s
official job description.
Those who prefer to do only one job are better suited
for work on large starships. Small starships offer
exciting, fast-paced tasks with a wide variety, for better
or worse. The statement ‘it’s not my job’ is not often
heard on a small starship, as the crew understands the
need to help out with more than the tasks covered by
their job description. Although there can be room for
focus on single jobs, particularly for junior members in
crews of at least three, the term ‘omnidisciplinary’ is
applied to individuals who have shown themselves to
be excellent small ship crew.

116

For example, a typical day aboard a Suleiman with one
crew member aboard may start with waking up when
the ship exits jumpspace, then setting coordinates
to a nearby planet. While the ship autopilots, they
will repair a jammed food dispenser and make up
the spare stateroom for guests. They then may need
to coordinate with local traffic control, land the ship,
conduct trade and diplomacy negotiations, load cargo
and pick up passengers. They will need to take off
again, entertain passengers and help them settle in
as the ship autopilots to a safe jump distance, before
doing astrogation calculations and guiding the ship
back into jumpspace.
Crew used to working on a large starship may find the
transition to a smaller vessel unsettling. The lack of
work significantly reduces their main role but others
may ask them to do things they have never done
before, leading to confusion. Some small ship captains
refuse to hire those from large ships for this reason.
While small ships are not for everyone, some enjoy
the thrill of never knowing precisely what they need to
do, building a sense of pride that comes from knowing
everything about their ship.

CREW REGULATIONS AND AUTOMATED CREW
The Imperium created standard crew regulations with
large ships in mind. This is less formal legislation and
more what hiring halls prefer, most large employers
offer and most crew expect. The reality that most
ships are small ships where these regulations are
inappropriate forced a number of concessions.
Where there are standard pay rates for standardised
jobs, officially one crew may perform two jobs and
receive 75% of the standard pay for each. Assuming
the person is up to doing both, they both have less
things to do and earn more money, whilst the captain
has one less person to manage and saves a bit on life
support. Due to multiple studies on overworking, no
sophont is supposed to be paid for performing three or
more jobs. When this happens, it is usually on small
crews that do not care much about regulations; a ship’s
pilot, astrogator and engineer are highly unlikely to walk
out on the captain when all four are the same person.
Many small ships pay their crew with shares of the
ship’s profits rather than standardised salaries. Some

