reserve this for their ‘core’ crew who go on adventures
beyond their jobs, while other crew expected to perform
only their jobs receive standard salaries but are free to
come and go at port.
Even for ships operated entirely by individuals,
crew role lists still commonly exist. This is why the
Suleiman listing in this book shows pilot, astrogator
and engineer roles, despite the fact that having three
separate individuals performing those duties is by no
means common.
Some say this is a more meaningful distinction between
‘large ships’ and ‘small ships’, although others believe
it less useful for classification since it can change from
ship to ship, and between captains on the same ship.
Does the crew have an astrogator or someone with
other duties who performs astrogation as needed? If
the ship is armed, does the crew have one or more
gunners or just people with other duties who operate
the guns as needed?
This division informs the use of automated crew – see
Drones and Virtual Crew on page 64. Large ships
replace certain roles with software or robots capable
of performing the job, viewing it as an investment
with payoff in the formula (price of robot) / ((replaced
crew’s monthly salary and life support cost) – (monthly
maintenance cost of robot)). Small ships have a harder
time with this, as the captain must replace each person
performing multiple roles with a combination of software
and robots; an engineering robot may be less capable
of cooking a meal or keeping an eye on the sensors
compared to a person trained as an engineer.

Ship’s articles are documents that serve as a ship’s
constitution or charter. These set up the responsibilities
of a ship’s captain and crew in an easily accessible
format. They are less common among smaller ship
crews, who often see them as an unnecessary
formality. Captains use them to stop arguments about
pay, watch structures or codes of conduct long before
they start, and they also clearly lay out a captain’s
authority to maintain discipline, including what
punishments may be issued as procedures to record
crew complaints and disciplinary actions.
Most articles start as copies of larger ships’ articles
or boilerplate materials but are modified over time as
larger ships can often afford to turn away crew who do
not agree with aspects of the ship’s articles but smaller
vessels may not have this luxury. On these ships, hiring
crew can involve minor changes to which all crew must
agree and hiring crew is often done as a collective
effort on smaller ships. Articles aboard larger ships are
more set in stone, written in dense legalese; attempting
to hide objectionable aspects of a ship’s working
environment from prospective crew is usually the remit
of ships belonging to large corporations, not least
because attempting this without the backing of security
or military forces is profoundly unwise.
Ironically, this results in some pirate ships having
excellent crew conditions; irritating those who
have already demonstrated wilful disregard for the
law decreases one’s life expectancy. There are
recommended practices for those who wish to remain
on the right side of the law and avoid underhanded
tactics. Under no circumstances start work on a ship
without a contract, ideally written in plain language and
checked with a lawyer. The contract must give the basic
wages of all crew positions, as well as specifying which
are only on duty for certain shifts and what conditions
can require off-shift duty. It should also clearly lay out
the expected duration of contract and conditions for
termination. Any changes to the contractual period must
be by mutual consent only. Requests for termination
should have enough notice for the ship to reach the
next major port where it can get replacement crew.

PROFIT SHARING
A good rule of thumb for more comfortable
employment, if one can find it, is to ask if the ship
practises profit sharing – not to be confused with ‘ship
shares’, which represent fractional ownership of a
ship. Should a ship make more profit than expected,
the excess is shared among the crew as well as the
owners. As profit sharing can limit a corporation’s

Crew Roles

Automated crew found on small ships fall into one of
three scenarios:
● First is the rich loner captain who does not want a
sophont crew.
● Second amounts to an automated troop transport,
carrying a team of sophonts that must be able to
adapt to conditions encountered on the ground with
the space portion of the trip not expected to present
danger or difficulty. The missions assigned to this
team often involve some degree of secrecy, so they
use automation to reduce the number of sophonts
that must keep the secret.
● Third and most common is when a small ship crew
comes into possession of a much larger ship but is
not comfortable switching to large ship procedures.
Filling positions with robots allows the remaining
crew to continue using small ship crew procedures.

SHIP’S ARTICLES

117

