T

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Suleiman

Gazelle
cash flow, this serves as a useful signifier that they
are more willing to provide other concessions to
the crew. Profit sharing gives every crew member
a financial interest in making sure the ship runs
effectively and thus as profitably as possible, which
means backstabbing politics are kept to a minimum.
Everyone has a motive to help out should someone
run into unexpected difficulties.

Crew Roles

Profit sharing is usually not motivated by benevolence
and is simply a different approach to maximising the
bottom line. Profit sharing is often proportional to crew
members’ duties; a galley attendant or cargo handler
might only receive a quarter share while officers receive
more than one, with the ship’s owners still getting a
larger share still. Corporations which engage in profit
sharing often reason that crew motivation and morale
will improve profits, increasing the corporation’s share
more than the amount they pay out.

118

That said, profit sharing is sometimes used by ships
that do not have a reliable source of income and thus
have to divvy up profits as they come in, in lieu of
salaries. Those who cannot afford to miss a paycheck
should not rely on profit sharing.

CREW SKILLS AND RATINGS
Ships associated with a government or military are
crewed by government employees or service members.
Megacorporations retain crew often educated in
their own merchant academies. Smaller corporations
and free traders generally recruit and hire crew from
a variety of sources. In an attempt to prove that
individuals are qualified for crew positions and quantify

their level of skill, different organisations will endorse
them with official ratings. This provides reassurance
to a hiring captain that their new engineer is not a
dilettante with delusions of grandeur who will melt down
the power plant on their first day.
The Imperial Army, Marines and Navy provide
certificates giving such ratings at discharge, based
on formal training received in the service. The IISS
maintains its own system using peer-reviewed exams.
Notably, scouts will rate one of their members on a skill
even if the member never sat for formal training but
‘picked up’ sufficient knowledge along the way.
Megacorporations provide certifications to employees
trained by them who leave their service under good
terms. Aslan clans maintain similar policies for those
who served the clan, provided their service was
honourable, although acceptance of these varies
outside of Hierate space. Local accredited colleges
often provide ratings along with a diploma. While good
colleges routinely distribute records to nearby systems,
the validity of a recent accreditation in another system
can be unreliable. Use caution with any ‘school’ that
promises to provide an official skill-rating certificate in
exchange for a large fee.
The Sishekarek is the ancient Vilani traders’ guild that
has certified starship positions for 6,000 years and their
ratings are highly respected in areas that maintain a
strong Vilani culture. In Vland, it is virtually required for
employment on a starship. Their testing centres can be
found in Class A and most Class B starports throughout
the Imperium, as well as some a short distance beyond

R

