its borders. Vilani megacorporations rate all their ship
crew through the Sishekarek but the guild will certify
any skilled individual who passes an exam and pays
a nominal fee, typically Cr300–800 depending on the
position. This provides an opportunity for individuals who
came by their ship skills in an informal or illicit manner to
receive an official rating.
Small ship captains will find qualification records
useful to check but may not trust them wholeheartedly.
It is uncommon but possible to forge qualifications,
especially when the legitimate record issuer is half a
sector away. More than one captain has signed on a
crewmember with a spotless record, only for them to
fail abjectly and leave after a single jump, willingly or
forcibly. While large ships can absorb these losses, a
free trader would rather not lose their only engineer
as a fraud after committing to a jump to a backwater
world where a replacement may be hard to find. Less
common are those who wish to learn from experience
rather than schooling and believe that life among the
stars is easy. Some may think that just memorising this
book is sufficient to become a star trader.
Crew looking for work should be honest about
skillsets and goals; apply for a working passage as
an apprentice instead. Apprentices will learn far more
under an experienced crew and have fewer major
responsibilities. The pay will be minimal but there
is less chance of winding up penniless in a strange
system or condemning an innocent crew to death by
misjump. Many crew, even some captains, got their
start in space this way.

THE PHANTOM POSITIONS
People familiar with crew positions on media about
large and/or military ships often notice the distinct
absence of two of these positions on small ships;
the sensor operator (sensop) and communications

COMMOS

On non-military ships, the ship’s computer typically
handles communications but a captain can assign
someone to this task. This person rarely has anything to
do but open and close a single communication channel
on command. Captains assigning this duty should be
aware of this and not assign crew who are mischievous
when bored. Most do not recommend assigning this role
as a punishment as it often results in consequences that
amount to lesser forms of sabotage. Commos are more
often present on ships travelling to regions where the
typical population does not speak Vilani and Galanglic.
While computer-based translators are standard for
these situations, having someone who speaks the
local language can help avoid faux pas that a machine
translation may stumble into. A hybrid approach, having
a crew who can swap language libraries as needed, is
common among augmented crew.
In theory, commos also aid in communicating at very
long ranges, clearing up weak signals and punching
through jamming. However, outside of military missions,
the solution to these issues tend to be either ‘move
closer’ or ‘they are distorting a fake distress call, which
means this is a trap’.

SENSOPS

On military vessels, sensor operators are invaluable.
From electronic warfare shielding their ship from
oncoming missile salvos to watching for wouldbe ambushers, they are the eyes and ears of any
armada and can easily be the difference between
victory and defeat.
Most other ships concern themselves with getting
from point A to point B. Rather than oncoming missile
salvos, they care about predictable trajectories of
oncoming planetoids or how best to weave through the
constellation of ships near a starport. In these roles,
sensor operation is a solved problem, managed by
the automated systems that come standard with any
spacecraft. Many believe the sensop is simply not
required, relegated to the same obsolescence as coal
stokers, powder monkeys or any other ancient obsolete
job; software engineers program the computer for any
expected circumstances or contingencies.

Crew Roles

The wise captain will be sure to place any new crew
through a simulation to test competence under normal
operating conditions. Running through the most
common procedures can take under an hour and
will give the captain a much better idea of the new
hire’s strengths. Asking basic questions during a job
interview is a good idea; if an alleged engineer does
not know which component stores power for jump in
a jump drive, they are probably not competent to act
as the ship’s sole engineer. A good captain knows the
fundamentals of every role on the ship but someone
who obtained a ship without this experience and needs
a crew quickly may be able to ask questions based on
the relevant sections of this book.

operator (commo). Some crew view these positions as
‘busywork’, tasks assigned to low-performing crew to
make them feel valuable. Commo somewhat earns this
reputation, sensop less so.

This argument may even hold water, right up until
unexpected circumstances occur.

119

