T

No matter how sophisticated, software cannot deal
with circumstances the creators did not design it to
handle. Automated systems may dismiss an anomaly
that a sensop would realise is an approaching meteor
storm. Handling these is a job best left to something
that can react to them.
Computers are fast and generally non-discriminatory.
A computer monitoring a sensor feed will never miss
anything the sensors detect. However, a major part
of a sensop’s job is filtering this flood into a trickle of
information. The ship’s pilot may need to know about
close objects and potential collisions but when landing
on a world or making a pass through a ring system,
an endless stream of proximity alert warnings and
collision alerts is not conducive to maintaining an alert
watch. The sensop is the command crew’s last line
of defence, filtering everything the computer detects
for usable information, usually done through adjusting
the software’s assessment criteria with the sensop’s
judgement of what is important. The sensop will need
to adjust the computer back to a default mode once
the unexpected passes.
On some ships, the sensop will serve as the chief
computer technician, working in close conjunction
with the ship’s engineers to fix problems, maintain the
sensors themselves and ensure proper read-outs from
monitoring systems. This steers them towards monitoring
the computer for attempted attacks. Missile attacks have
similar concerns, as the sensop conducts electronic
warfare to spoof and divert the missiles.

Crew Roles

‘EVERYONE’ DUTIES

120

On small ships, some roles that need no specialised
training are shared by the crew, whether explicitly or
implicitly. The captain may not assign them formally
and separately, particularly where they do not pay
specific crew for these positions, but they must be
completed anyway.
Security is the most common of these. Every sophont
has working senses, with which they can monitor their
immediate surroundings. They can report evident
threats, whether or not they are equipped and trained
to fight. Most sophonts can throw a punch or claw if
they have to, while few hostile boarders will pass on
capturing or killing a crewmember because they do not
put up a fight. Non-combat aspects of security include
not letting outside parties access to the ship’s computer
and keeping information hidden from prying eyes.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

Cargo handling is the next most common. Every
sophont, with or without assistive technology, is able to
move and carry a load. When at port, many vital ship
functions temporarily become unnecessary. The ship
can usually use the port’s air and life support, many
systems are powered down and sensors are rarely
useful, which leaves many crew with no other duties.
Unloading or loading cargo and seeing off departing
passengers or finding new ones are tasks that most
merchant captains would prefer to be done quickly.
The only duty that absolutely cannot be shared is that
of a ship’s captain, if only because ports list just one
person in that role on documents, even for crews that
try a more democratic approach.

STEWARDS
The steward rounds out commonly distributed tasks.
While cooking, cleaning and tending to the morale of
passengers is a well-recognised job, many crews never
consider that the crew also requires these, especially
those that do not take passengers. Some crews pass
around cooking and cleaning duties, while others let them
fall to those happiest to do them. No small number of
crews, with no naturally talented stewards among them,
rely on pre-packaged foods. Reluctantly and only when
they can no longer deny the need, they hire cleaners
while at port, frequently combined with maintenance.
These crews often struggle with morale, the captain trying
various styles of leadership to inspire the crew but not
actually dealing with interpersonal problems.
If a ship will be carrying passengers, sufficient stewards
are vital. Failing to meet this requirement can cause
disaster, yet many overlook or brush it off due to having
no ‘hard’ duties. A steward’s duties are many:
• Advertise for passengers. Others can do this but
advertising passenger berths takes more than just
posting a note on the starport’s datanet. At minimum,
they obtain and post reviews from previous
passengers. On a low TL world, this may include
using billboards but at higher TLs this may mean
renting advertising space or buying media ads.
● Accept payment. A good steward checks for
counterfeit currency, makes certain any local transport
taxes are covered by the passenger fee rather than
coming out of the ship’s share and ensures all checks
clear prior to departure. This is easy on high TL
worlds, possibly painful in low TL systems.
● Perform initial security checks of passengers. A good
steward is the difference between an uneventful
jump and a passenger pulling out a snub pistol on a
tour of the bridge. A great steward will manage to do
this without alienating anyone, preventing walkouts
and keeping the staterooms full.

R

