●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

Procure tips. Not everyone tips but people who
particularly enjoy their trip may. A few hundred
Credits per passenger is nice pocket change.
High passengers may tip more and receive extra
benefits during the journey.

Other ship-usage-dependent positions are more
amenable to being done part time, which is why they
are not often listed save on the most function-dedicated
ships. An Empress Marava might or might not have
one of the crew acting as the ship’s broker. Steward, if
listed, is a full time role if running a passenger service.

SPECIALISED BUT SHARED
Other roles also require specialised training and yet
are so infrequently performed on small ships that they
cannot justify being someone’s primary job.
Many people immediately think of the astrogator. They
calculate the route from star to star, setting up parameters
for each jump. They help with navigation in-system but
that is usually a decidedly simpler proposition. While they
can focus on this when far from jump, even some large
ships reduce astrogation to a duty performed by other
crewmembers, particularly science ships likely to have
someone with relevant training. Other ships have an
‘astrogator’ who is a general-duties crew member, using
the title to cover for other functions they either do not have
a good title for or, more often, do not wish to permanently
assign a crewmember to.
Gunners suffer from the same problem. Their function
in combat is clear but even the most frequently fighting
ship spends far less than half its time at combat
readiness, let alone actually fighting. Even in combat, if
the enemy targets and destroys their weapon and they
survive, they are usually reassigned to damage control
or security. Outside of combat, they train and help with
weapon maintenance but there is a limit to how much
time can be spent on those tasks. As with sensops,
dedicating crew as full-time gunners for an eventuality
that might never happen is simply unaffordable.
Designating who has gunner duty if attacked is vital,
both to make sure everyone knows who has to reach
the guns and to ensure the gunners are familiar with
their stations. Beyond that, being a gunner might carry
no consequence for a shipboard career other than a pay
adjustment for performing two roles. There are quite a
few ‘gunners’ on ships plying safe routes who took one
course long ago and volunteer to for the extra pay.

Crew Roles

●

Arrange special accommodations for passengers.
Passengers with unannounced pets or food
allergies are potential disasters for the crew. A
passenger able to entertain others in jump or a
couple who wish to share a room are opportunities
that a good steward will catch early and make
necessary adjustments for.
Luggage handling. Someone has to bring the
luggage on board and check it for concealed
weapons. Other crew will often do the former and
skip the latter. Stewards will sort luggage to the
correct stateroom and control access to checked
luggage while underway. This requires knowing
which bags passengers can access and which
suitcase has the handgun stuffed in it that should
stay locked until disembarkation.
Room service. This is not optional, as nothing
scares passengers away faster than a room with
an unmade bed. Multiplying this by the number of
passenger rooms on a trader makes for a decent
workload to handle, so stewards will often draft
other crew to help.
Entertain passengers. The average jump is 168
hours, during which passengers are locked in a
metal box. A good steward will set up tours, use
talented passengers to lecture or entertain others,
run multiplayer game tournaments, start movie
nights and more. This is an essential duty on a
passenger ship.
Feed passengers and indulge high passengers.
This is essential unless the intention is to live out
of meal packages. Passengers are less willing to
accept this, although a masterful steward can sell
them on ‘spacer cuisine’. Different worlds have
different ingredients available, save for common
staples, which vary between sectors.
The first line of security. An average trading vessel
can have 10 or more passengers, any of whom
might plot to take over the ship. A good steward
herds them all, keeping injuries, scuffles and hijack
attempts away. A great steward does it so well the
passengers do not notice.
Be the passengers’ counsellor. While computers
can help, they are self-administered and require the
passenger to realise they have an issue. Stewards
are sophonts. They can recognise issues that a
machine will never see and refer the passenger to
said software.
Handle complaints. A good steward knows how to
apologise, make amends and how to stall, cover,
deflect, spin and outright lie away that which
cannot be solved.

121

