T

The lack of enough dedicated mechanics and
engineers is a defining characteristic of small ships.
Someone has to perform maintenance, route power
to ship systems, monitor the manoeuvre and jump
drive, and make sure life support is not going awry.
On a small ship with standard automation, the work
this takes can be too small to need a full-time person.
Even on ships that officially rate two or more engineers,
it is common for them to have another role, usually
an occasional-duty job such as gunner so they can
spend most of their time in engineering. This can cause
problems in stressful situations where they need to
perform both duties, leaving no one to keep damage
to the power plant or other systems from cascading
into further complications. If a ship’s engineers are
performing other jobs as well, make sure they are
unlikely to need to split their attention.

Crew Roles

Medics appearing on this list may surprise and concern
some but it is a consequence of the maths. One medic
with proper equipment can tend to the routine needs
of a much larger group than a typical small ship crew.
Even without a dedicated medical bay, a small ship’s
demand comes to less than one full-time medic.
Instead, many small ships have someone with medical
knowledge among their crew rather than a specialist –
or go without. The main practical problem is the medic’s
limited ability for self-care, most commonly solved by
the medic having checkups at port. Some captains
have their entire crew take a basic first aid course,
much like they may have everyone take a basics of
starship engineering course, although this can aggrieve
qualified medics and engineers.

122

Administration is part of a captain’s duties if there
is not enough workload to justify a dedicated
administrator. On small ships, this is usually a
matter of record keeping and contract writing, simple
skills adequately performed with informal training,
especially with the vast library of free forms and
‘boilerplate’ templates available. There is nothing
inherently binding this function to the captain; a
small ship crew where the pilot studied bookkeeping
might see them perform administration duties
instead. Whoever does administration often acts as a
quartermaster, keeping track of finances and goods.
On ships where the administrator pays the crew in
shares of the ship’s profits, it is this person’s task to
keep track of what those profits are, so this person
must be trusted not to embezzle.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

SUPERCARGO

‘Supercargo’ refers to crew who have little or no
function when the ship is away from port. Brokers are
perhaps the most famous example, constantly busy
making deals when a ship is in port but the moment
the ship lifts off, they may as well visit the low berths to
stave off boredom. Supercargo roles tend to pass the
time in one of three ways.
First, many find ways to do parts of their job while
away from ports. Brokers might study information on
surrounding systems to help decide their next port of
call or brush up on customs rules that will help them
trade at their next destination. Scientific crews analyse
data on the trip back while running through what-if
scenarios on the initial leg of their journey. Marines
train constantly, either for battle or conducting damage
control drills; the best live entertainers do something
similar when not planning new acts.
Second, some switch to shipboard duties that are less
important when in port. As noted above astrogation,
sensop, gunnery and steward duties are among those
commonly filled this way. This happens often enough
that, for example, when a Suleiman or Empress Marava
lists only a pilot and an engineer as its crew it is
generally understood that one of them is the astrogator,
often the pilot. Although some try to classify astrogators
as supercargo, they are vital to the operation of a jumpcapable ship. Some freely volunteer to do cooking,
cleaning and other housekeeping duties when in transit
from port-to-port.

BUSYWORK

If faced with supercargo who fail to find ways
to alleviate their boredom, a captain would be
well advised to provide busywork. This could be
anything from regular drills and cross training,
to creating itemised lists of the contents of the
ship’s locker. Cleaning is common, although this
should be to an objectively measurable standard
of cleanliness rather than ‘do it again until I say it
is done’, as this breeds resentment.
Those who do not offer enough stimulation should
beware – the only thing more dangerous than a
bored marine is a bored marine with friends.

R

