Finally, many engage in leisure to pass the time, or use
low berths or fast drug. These people are the source
of the impression that supercargo crew are mostly
layabout wastrels, who must be hauled from port-toport in order to pay the bills. Giving the ship its reason
to travel is of vital importance: without them, there
would be no voyage in the first place. Common wisdom
is to treat those who insist on this option as passengers
to the maximum extent practical. This sometimes leads
to conflict with wealthy but lazy ship owners who do
not understand why they should engage in more useful
pursuits, refusing to understand how little vacuum or
jumpspace care about Credits.

THOSE IN CHARGE OF CARGO

Typical salaries for pursers and quartermasters are
comparable to an officer’s, while loadmasters get
general crew rates. Brokers’ pay depends on whether
they are part of the command crew or not, comparable
to an officer’s in the former case or an engineer’s in
the latter. If someone holding any of these jobs is the
captain, they are instead paid for being the captain.
Ships without personnel dedicated to these roles
may have people performing them on an informal or
volunteer basis, sometimes without realising it.

Crew Roles

Roles that revolve around being in charge of cargo go
by many names, with differences in what they do with
the cargo, particularly when not at port. On large ships,
some can be part of the command crew. On small
ships, having someone other than just the captain who
is ‘part of the command crew’ tends to mean having a
second in command.
● BROKERS buy and sell cargo and arrange freight
operations. On small trading ships they are
sometimes part of the command crew, perhaps
even the captain or ship’s owner. In addition,
they research the local economy to stay aware
of supply and demand, providing suggestions for
a chain of destinations long before a ship has
broken out of jump. A good broker, being familiar
with local worlds beyond their names and profiles,
can act as a guide for expeditions. Some brokers
double as quartermasters.
● PURSERS are in charge of a ship’s finances,
a middle ground between brokers and
quartermasters. Like quartermasters, they are
part of the command crew. Usually, ‘purser’ is
shorthand for ‘broker-quartermaster’ as they
handle payments, whether for cargo and freight or
purchasing supplies and distributing crew salaries
and bonuses. Ships adherent to Aslan traditions
forbid males from taking this role. Standard
police procedure when investigating smuggling,
contraband, or other illicit uses of a ship is to
interrogate the purser first. Unmonitored pursers
have the ability to skim large quantities of Credits
from a ship’s budget, so this position requires a
lot of trust or verification. Some con artists make
careers out of getting ships to hire them as pursers
for several jumps, parting ways before anyone
realises where their Credits have been going.
● QUARTERMASTERS and LOGISTICS OFFICERS
are part of the command crew, making sure
the ship has supplies to carry out its mission

●

and informing the rest of command when a
lack of supplies will make proposed missions
impossible. Anyone who wants equipment must
obtain the quartermaster’s permission and log
the withdrawal, particularly food, ammunition,
parts and tools. The presence of a quartermaster
can interfere with a steward’s duties. Ships with
quartermasters usually do not have stewards or
carry paying passengers, while passenger liners
generally do not hire quartermasters.
STEVEDORES and LOADMASTERS handle the
loading and unloading of cargo. This is perhaps
the most dramatic example of supercargo; beyond
checking and re-securing cargo while underway,
there is not much these positions can accomplish
while not at port. Although the role can be
essential on larger freighters, many do not see it
as a separate, paid position.

123

