MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
Many think of ship maintenance and repair as
something an engineer or shipyard does while
inconveniencing the crew, once a year or so. However,
it is vital for all crew to have a basic understanding of
simple maintenance and repair, especially on small
or shorthanded ships. In an emergency, an untrained
member of the crew may need to perform maintenance
or repair in order to move the ship to a shipyard for
major repairs and upgrades.

ANNUAL VERSUS
ONGOING MAINTENANCE

‘Annual maintenance’ refers to putting into port for
two weeks once per year, paying for a year’s worth
of maintenance and having it all done at that time.
If done properly, the ship should not need major
maintenance for another year. Any Class A or B
starport worth the classification can perform this
service, using imported parts if they do not have
a high enough TL to manufacture them locally.
Ships with custom high-TL components still require
maintenance at high-TL starports.
By contrast, most of this book’s readers will have
an engineer who does maintenance continuously
throughout the year with a monthly parts budget,
termed ‘ongoing maintenance’. This works just as well
as annual maintenance, with minimal downtime and
more ease in identifying problems before they become
a serious concern. This is less practical for most noncommercial and/or large ships made in lower quantities,
as their parts are frequently in shorter supply.
The main advantages of annual maintenance are that
the ship is not running while maintenance is performed,
making it easier and safer to perform tests, and
reducing the crew’s task load. Annual maintenance is
recommended for ships without a workshop, although
many small ship captains ignore this.
Where to perform ongoing maintenance can be a
challenge. Performing maintenance or repairs on a stillrunning reactor or drive has similarities to performing
open-heart surgery without any form of anaesthesia.
A ship resting in port can offline its systems with little

124

consequence, providing another point in favour of
annual maintenance, although it is possible for ships
to work around this by disassembling and overhauling
systems not in use. In particular, the crew can work on
the manoeuvre drive in jumpspace and the jump drive
in realspace, although any engineer considering this
would do well to finish their work before the ship needs
to move; a trader sitting at the 100D limit without a
functioning manoeuvre drive makes a tempting target.
Most power plants have multiple reactors, primarily to
allow for partial function should damage or accident
disable one, but this allows an engineer to shut one
down for maintenance while the others remain active.
When turning these systems offline, most ships
will keep to lockout-tagout procedures, the practice
of making certain that all systems that can injure
personnel are disabled while under maintenance.
This is usually accomplished with physical locks on all
relevant controls to prevent activation. Software locks
can be used too but are seen as easier to accidentally
unlock. This may be the primary difference between
annual and ongoing maintenance. At the logical
extremes, annual maintenance locks out the entire
ship while ongoing maintenance does not. The truth
is always in between; during annual maintenance
some systems can still operate, while competent
engineers performing ongoing maintenance still lock
out systems occasionally but make an art of optimising
and scheduling them to minimise disruption to ship
operations. Some disruption is inevitable and safety
procedures may seem like unnecessary formalities,
but they should usually be complied with as most are
written in the blood of dead crew.
Another reason some ships favour annual
maintenance is that maintenance requires tools which
not all ships carry. This is an ill-advised cost-cutting
measure as it leaves the ship unable to conduct
emergency repairs but this has not prevented some
captains from going without anyway. A properly
stocked engineering section should have a standard
starship engineer tool set for each engineer on
board. The exact contents vary but a typical set
includes multispectral vision goggles, an iris valve
opener, a display and probes to test electronic and
gravitic equipment, soldering gear, programmable

