micromanipulators, pliers, wrenches, sockets and
a mallet or, at higher TLs, a small gravity hammer.
A good engineer tool set should provide small hull
patches and a portable airlock.

RESUPPLYING A SHIP

Making sure enough of the right tools, filters, fasteners
and other spare parts are stocked is all about thinking
ahead. While certain components fail at mostly
predictable rates, others fail on a more haphazard
timeline, with the prudent strategy being to keep a
spare around until needed. This is more of an issue for
small ships, with less room for redundant systems and
thus more unpredictable failures.
Having a workshop aboard ship means stocking a
smaller diversity of spare parts, as the workshop
provides the ability to manufacture parts a ship needs
from common raw materials.

FOOD RESUPPLY
Food storage and resupply is a vital but often
overlooked part of maintenance. Many crew know
little more than that keeping food cold helps prevent it
from spoiling, a practice dating back to TL0 on many
worlds. Advances in food preservation allow a lettuce
leaf harvested at a farm to be almost as fresh months
later. Food producers apply these at the site of
production, so a ship only has to provide dry storage,
refrigerated storage and water.

On top of having enough food, menu fatigue is worth
avoiding. While some sophonts do not mind eating the
same thing every day, most require a variety of food for
good mental health. Purchasing bulk units of one type
of food to feed the crew cheaply for an entire jump is,
in most cases, a regrettable mistake. Diverse pre-made
meal packs, with different tastes for 12 or 24 meals,
may cost a little more but they are worth it.
Well-run ships will have the purser and steward work
in tandem to stock a variety of healthy snacks, tailored
to the nutritional and preferred needs of those aboard,

Food-producing biospheres do not need resupply,
eliminating that need being the purpose of their
existence. They provide raw ingredients, although
many are tied into automated galleys that make it look
like finished meals come directly from the biosphere.
Ships with biospheres still utilise food storage, both for
ingredients they cannot produce and a backup supply
of highly condensed rations in case of food production
failure. Some crews make a ritual of consuming and
replacing the rations during annual maintenance; a
common joke is that they do it to remind themselves
why they do not let the biospheres fail. It can be a
challenge to produce nutritious food with every meal.
Fortunately, there are widely distributed recipes that
work for most sophonts.
Some private crews make multi-sector voyages to seek
out new cuisines, as even after thousands of years of
interstellar civilisation, culinary innovation is always
happening somewhere. Worlds off the main x-boat
network are likely either to have recipes that are new to
the rest of the Third Imperium or be markets for recipes
at starports with x-boat service.

PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE
Ship crews using annual maintenance are less
likely to pay attention to preventative maintenance,
mistakenly thinking that only shipyards perform
maintenance. Not taking a little time to fix minor
issues as they occur can lead to major issues that
take more time. This is why an inspection, if not a
full maintenance cycle, is highly recommended when
purchasing a used ship; if the former crew did not
perform preventative maintenance, the ship may have
expensive maintenance issues soon.
While other documents record a complete list of
preventative maintenance for each individual ship, the
following can give a general idea of what to look for.
Filters for air, water, waste and more need replacement
on a set schedule. Some have internal monitors to let
crews know when they go bad but all filters have a
maximum recommended use time. Many companies
build filters with chemochromic materials that change
colour in the presence of contaminants, providing
a colour-scale to show how saturated they are. It is
vital to keep track of replacement timelines and when

Maintenance and Repair

Any ship jumping from world to world will spend
somewhere from six to eight days in transit, possibly
adding one or two if either or both ends involve a long
trip between the jump limit and the world. This assumes
that food will reliably be available at the destination; if
not, multiply this by however many jumps it will take to
reach food resupply, adding any days spent on worlds
between jumps. Ships venturing into the unknown
frequently stock four weeks of food for a return trip.

along with ingredients for a weekly list of meals. Many
passengers carry their own supplements or food if their
needs vary greatly from the norm.

125

