T

current supplies will run out. Crew have fallen ill and
occasionally died because of a dirty filter, which is
preventable with proper planning and scheduling.
Checking gauges may seem tedious, yet it is vital to
make sure they are in working order and report what
they are monitoring to keep the ship running. Many
times a freighter started a jump thinking they had full
tanks of fuel, only to find the sensor was faulty. While
the common practice of tapping the gauge only works
on older spring loaded pointer style indicators, many
believe this still works on electronic versions. This is
generally incorrect, as electronic gauges require full
computer diagnostics to tell if they are working properly.

Maintenance and Repair

Loose fasteners are common aboard a ship, easily
checked and tightened. Manufacturers use fasteners
of one kind or another for chairs, tables, hull and
almost all parts of the ship. While not all bolts and nuts
tighten or look the same, most fasteners are required
to be a minimum of hand tight with some requiring a
certain amount of torque. A fastener that refuses to stay
tightened due to worn threads or a persistent vibration
could be hinting at larger issues. The application of a
threadlocker compound rarely solves these problems.

126

General cleaning may seem redundant if only a few crew
are aboard but dust gathers in areas of low activity and
clogs both filters and machinery. A build-up of oily residue
in a drive area may seem harmless but could cause crew
to slip and fall during a critical time while they are trying
to fix or shut down something else. It clogs air filters and
overworks ventilation and life support systems, eventually
causing a breakdown of key machinery. A puddle may
seem harmless to the untrained observer but may signify
an irradiated coolant leak. Making sure to remove any
dust and debris from walkways and important areas can
help prevent any future issues and increase efficiency of
the crew during their duties.
Please check the guidelines for the ship’s preventative
maintenance list and schedule. Failure to follow the
list can result in skipping a vital component that is in
desperate need of emergency maintenance.

CREW MAINTENANCE DRILLS

Drills are a form of preventative maintenance
performed on a starship’s crew, covering general
practice such as pilot simulator runs and gunner target
practice, as well as emergencies including fire, hull
breaches and injuries. Announced drills are either
routinely scheduled or started when convenient, such
as during jump when little else is going on. They can be
administered individually or involve the entire crew.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

This gives the crew an opportunity to see how
things should work. If unexpected complications
do not arise, the run should meet all requirements
and objectives. Failure in such a drill is a cause
for concern, indicating that the failing crew needs
immediate remedial training and should retake the
drill before assignment to other duties. If the pilot
crashes in a simulation of a routine approach, that is
not a good sign for the ship’s next port of call.
Software typically generates drills, sometimes aided
by a trained instructor. The ship’s captain or chief
engineer sets the limits on possible scenarios; within
those limits, the software can configure any potential
issues. If it says the crew is fighting K’Kree pirates while
undergoing a partial drive failure and internal comms
malfunction, that is what they must attempt. Failure here
is not necessarily a bad thing, as the goal is familiarity
with unlikely scenarios. In some ways, failure can be
desirable as a crew that always passes these drills with
little effort most likely has the scenario restrictions set too
narrowly, which may leave them inadequately prepared if
something truly unanticipated occurs.
Fire, breach and suit drills typically have physical props.
Roping passengers in to act as judges or hazards
is typically good fun during jump, if the passengers
understand what is happening and agree to participate.
However, recruiting passengers against their will or
surprising them during a drill can cause them to act in
self-defence, perhaps with lethal force. Passengers
who are not informed or do not agree to participate
should be kept away from these drills. In most cases,
an announcement such as, ‘We are doing something in
the cargo hold for a while, so please stay out until we
are done’ will suffice.
For small ships, unannounced drills happening at
random times are widely considered a sign of a poorly
run ship. Running too many unannounced drills may
cause the crew to think that any emergency is just
another drill and does not require a serious response.
Make it clear at the start that it is a drill and only conduct
them when no other important business is going on.

EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE

While this book is a handy resource, reading while
attempting to fix a problem may cause more issues. If
called on to handle emergencies, crew must familiarise
themselves with the ship’s systems and procedures in
advance, so they do not respond too slowly and place
themselves in jeopardy.

R

