‘Emergency maintenance’ is an action that would
normally be assigned to available maintenance crew
but, due to unforeseen circumstances, is instead being
conducted quickly by the nearest available crewmember.
In an emergency, crew may need to turn valves, cut off
breakers, unplug electronics and other such tasks. It is
a peculiar type of emergency repair when there is time
to wait for properly trained personnel, equipment and
replacement parts to be available.

REPAIRS AND DOCUMENTATION
Hastily attempting repairs during an emergency
may cause more problems than waiting and doing it
with a level head. If it seems necessary to perform

Non-engineering crew repairing these systems without
telling anyone interferes with the engineer’s duty and
puts the ship in danger. However, some repairs are
time sensitive. If no engineers are available, inform
them of the work done at the earliest opportunity so
they can document it. Proper documentation of repairs
is not ‘just some old Vilani superstition’, nor is it the
cultural influence of Bwaps. It saves lives.
Leaks are probably the most reported issue aboard a
ship. Solids, liquids, gas or plasma could be leaking
from a pipe or storage vessel and providing a good
description of the leak helps identify the problem.
The most dangerous leak on most ships is from the
liquid hydrogen fuel tanks or fuel lines. Liquid hydrogen
is cold enough to cause many materials to become
brittle and shatter under the slightest pressure, and
hydrogen mixing with an oxygen atmosphere is highly
explosive under a wide range of pressures. Dealing
with a liquid hydrogen leak is of paramount importance.
Once a leak is located, the most common emergency
maintenance procedure is to trace the pipe and find the
closest cut-off valve. Most can be closed remotely from

Maintenance and Repair

Staying calm is essential during an emergency, both
to keep your own efforts focused and to serve as
an example for any who might look up to you. First,
evacuate any areas under immediate threat if necessary
and feasible. Leading passengers and fellow crewmates
away from the emergency may not take much skill but
does require familiarity with the ship’s layout. If unable
to make it to a safe location, quick thinking to remedy
the situation may save lives, not to mention the ship.
Next is to identify the type of emergency. Emergencies
stemming from faulty wiring, leaks, hull breaches and
malfunctioning equipment can cause much larger
problems if not maintained. If you are experiencing an
emergency, calmly evaluate your relative position to
keep yourself safe, the extent of the emergency, the
likelihood of it becoming worse, and what needs to be
done to keep the problem from spreading.

emergency maintenance on a vital system, find
an engineer immediately. Ideally, notify the chief
engineer as their primary duty is to track all vital ship
systems and assign other engineers to repairs. This
is not an inconvenience or imposition; it is their job,
especially since non-engineers should not have to
perform emergency maintenance.

127

