T

the bridge but some may require manual overrides.
First try to establish the direction of flow of the pipe as
cutting off the valve after the break may increase the
pressure, causing the pipe to burst. Follow the pipe
against the flow to the closest manual valve and, once
closed, the leak should lessen then stop. Next, find
out if the pipe is vital to the operation of the ship. If it
is simple and quick to repair the pipe by replacing it
or applying a patch, perform the repair then open the
valve. Otherwise, most vital systems can survive a brief
interruption in supply but there are limits. For example,
shutting a coolant pipe will stop that pipe from leaking
but may cause the ship’s engine to overheat and
explode if left for too long.

Maintenance and Repair

A hull breach can be thought of as a leak, albeit larger
and more urgent than most. In the event of a hull
breach, sealing off the affected compartment may be
the only way to stabilise the ship. If near the breached
area, heading toward the middle of the ship is often the
best option. Be sure to check the cameras of affected
areas for any crew or passengers in the compartment
before closing airlocks or hatches to prevent further
decompression. If trying to fix a hull breach manually,
make sure to have all the necessary tools and patches
before heading out to repair it.

128

Sparking wires and blown fuses are never good but
electrical problems can manifest as dimmer than
normal lighting, an indicator that blinks faster than
normal, computer terminals that flash instead of
staying on, or a mild electric shock when one touches
a surface. While some may seem more urgent than
others, handle all electrical problems quickly to ensure
the ship is still operating normally. A faulty wire is an
electrocution risk but can give a wrong readout on
other vital systems, causing false alerts or hiding critical
problems. An exposed and uninsulated wire could
connect with something conductive, like metal or water.
Electrically-charged metal decking can be especially
dangerous, as it can prevent attempts to approach and
fix the source of the problem. Shield high voltage areas
as they can cause instantaneous death.
When repairing wire, be sure to turn off any electrical
input before starting repair and ascertain if the wire
is broken or corroded. If not broken but possessing
damaged shielding, coat the affected area with a nonconductive material. Broken or corroded wires need
replacement. When dealing with a bundle of cables,
they typically have various colour insulating plastics
around each wire, used to identify what needs to attach
to what. A full replacement cable may be more viable
when available, either as a spare part or manufactured

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

CUTTING CORNERS
One recorded incident became widely distributed
for both engineering and comedic purposes. It
shows a passenger finding a leak, calling it in
via the nearest intercom but instead receiving
a generic request for them to handle it. This led
to the passenger looking around for anything
to fix the pipe, finding some duct tape, fixing
the piping with the duct tape, then promptly
informing a ship’s engineer who was passing by.
Unfortunately, the head engineer, in an attempt to
save money, had previously switched the ship’s
original piping with discount pipes that reacted
with the ship’s discount duct tape and was starting
to melt and burn by the time the engineer showed
up, causing a panic to put out the fire.
The ship’s internal documentation had never
been updated to reflect the replacement of the
pipes, so there was no way the passenger could
have known before conducting emergency
maintenance. The incident never went to court
but there was universal agreement among
legal scholars that the passenger would never
have been found at fault, especially since they
promptly informed the ship’s engineer afterward.
Less than 10 years later, the ship would be lost
when its manoeuvre drive abruptly failed while
taking off. Based on analysis of the wreckage,
the reason was a failed attempt by the ship’s
engineer to reuse the drive as a gravitic forge.
There were no notes about these modifications
in the ship’s computer, although they were at
least a week old, which should have provided
adequate time to document them.

in the ship’s workshop. If neither the schematic nor
a full replacement is available and there is neither a
colour nor shape guide, this is probably not a repair that
untrained crew should attempt, even in an emergency.

DECKPLAN REVISIONS

The ‘optimal’ deck layout for any given class of ship
is often a highly subjective matter. Many new ship
captains have issues with the deckplans of the ship
they just acquired. Minor interior alterations are a

R

