standard service offered as part of annual maintenance
by Class A or B starports, since it involves partially
disassembling the ship anyway.
Costs depend on the nature of the revisions. If they are
performed during the annual maintenance, and their
cost scales alongside this, it is common to price this
service as a modifier to the cost of that maintenance.
Any changes that move major systems, such as drives
or power plants, or involve changes to the outer hull,
such as sensors, weapons and airlocks, will at the very
least triple the maintenance cost, and usually charges
will be much higher. Any changes not involving these
components may only double the costs. This only
covers moving around existing components; adding,
removing or resizing components has a different price
and schedule. If a ship has a salvaged component,
it can be installed as a deckplan revision, with the
exception of standard turret weapon mounts. Being
relatively easy to remove and install, turret weapons
are often installed for free with purchase so long as the
ship has space available. Barbette mounts and larger
weapons do not get this benefit.
The owner must submit all planned revisions before the
work begins. There is no capability to accommodate
changes once work starts, save by paying full price and
starting the work period anew. Many a noble paid the
extra cost without blinking but raged at the prospect
of being without their ship for one more day, not
comprehending why their request caused such delays.

Those who wish to avoid these costs should purchase
a ship built for their preferred missions. While a
shipyard can theoretically modify any ship to a
shipowner’s or crew’s needs, researching the options
can keep the cost down. For example, it is less
expensive to build a Seeker than to build a Suleiman

When modifying a ship, care must be taken to leave the
ship spaceworthy. One noble loved his Animal-class so
much that rather than trade it in or buy a second ship,
he paid many times extra on a low-tech world (which
lacked trained safety inspectors, who had objected to
his plans at the first starport he tried) to have a large
hatch installed between the launch hangar and the
holding tank so he could put a large live animal in there.
This seemed to work until the hatch seals gave way
while the hangar doors were open in orbit, resulting in
explosive decompression.

SHIP RETIREMENT

A starship with good maintenance that never suffers
much damage and serving a purpose that remains
viable can theoretically last for 1,000 years or more.
The very few actual 1,000-year-old ships typically
serve mundane roles for which demand never went
away or are maintained as functioning museum
ships. Most examples rarely have any original parts
aside from sections of the hull, with enough replaced
material to make a new ship several times over.
When wanting greater capability beyond what it is
practical to modify a ship for, the ship’s owners can sell
it or have another vessel constructed. Ships whose
owners fail to pay their mortgages wind up sold off if
they are not stolen, lost, or destroyed first. This change
in ownership does not directly affect the lifespan of a
ship, although statistically ships that transfer owners
this way see poorer maintenance overall.
Excessively damaged or worn down ships eventually
wind up in the hands of shipbreakers, performing
what is sometimes termed ‘final annual maintenance’
as the procedure is quite similar; systems are
dismounted and extensively tested, although with
an eye toward resale rather than reinstallation.
There are occasions where, for legal, financial or
sentimental reasons, the owners want to retire and
replace a damaged ship with another but wish to act
as if it was the same ship. In these cases, the new
ship gets priority for reusable components of the old
vessel and transfers the nameplates over. However,
the Imperial registry is for a new ship with the same
name, recognised as a separate entity.

Maintenance and Repair

These revisions are expensive because of the extra
work involved. For example, converting two adjacent
staterooms into one large luxury stateroom will require
removing a wall and entirely rearranging the interior.
While this may seem simple, the shipyard will have to
move wiring, pillars, pipes, air ducts and extend larger
items. While adding a new airlock may appear easy, a
standard airlock may not fit the area so the shipyard will
need to resize it, not to mention altering the outer hull,
starting with moving any sensor nodes and jump drive
emitters, then tuning them to work optimally in new
locations. Even replacing the sink in the galley with a
deeper one often requires restructuring the piping and
widening the cabinet.

and then convert it into a Seeker. Regardless, many
small ship owners find themselves in possession of a
ship not optimised for their intended purpose, in which
case conversion may make more sense.

129

