SHIP WALKTHROUGH
Ten thousand years have passed since the Vilani
discovered the jump drive and started the modern
era of interstellar civilisation. Charted Space consists
of many thousands of inhabited worlds. The Third
Imperium alone consists of somewhere from 15 to 20
trillion sophonts, most of them human. Given these
numbers, it should come as no great surprise that there
is a staggering variety of starship designs.
This book presents three common ships: the safari ship,
the scout/courier and the far trader. In all three cases,
there are a number of internal layouts available when a
ship is first manufactured and many captains customise
further, so the examples selected are typical freshfrom-the-shipyard as representatives of each class: the
Animal-class Finicky Platypus, the Suleiman-class Dark
Poni and the Empress Marava-class Gustus.

ANIMAL (TYPE K) SAFARI SHIP

The Animal is a widely known ‘expedition ship’,
designed to land on poorly developed worlds with
exotic fauna. This ideal runs into local laws restricting
where starships may land often enough that the ship
carries two subcraft, one with an ATV, to facilitate
approach to wilderness areas. It carries a turret for
protection against pirates when headed into systems
where this is a problem. Those who target the largest
megafauna sometimes use it in their hunts, fitting laser
drills, since the limited range by ship standards is rarely
an issue for this purpose. When using ship weaponry
this way, care must be taken to make sure there is
enough of a trophy remaining.

SULEIMAN (TYPE S) SCOUT/COURIER
The Suleiman is believed to be among the most
massively produced designs of any starship in
Charted Space. It was originally designed to the
specifications of the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service
as a multipurpose vessel capable of exploration,
couriering and other common scout duties. Like most
multipurpose designs, it wound up being a jack-ofall-trades but a master of none. For example, many
criticise the jump performance of only two parsecs,
for both long distance courier services and heading to
distant unexplored star systems. Suleiman hulls can
be converted to several variants, such as the Seeker.
It is estimated that over a million Suleiman hulls have
been manufactured, including all variants, although
less than 50,000 remain in service as Suleimans in
the Third Imperium.

EMPRESS MARAVA
(TYPE A2) FAR TRADER

While not as famous as the Beowulf class, the
Empress Marava is a capable trading vessel. It
costs a little more and carries a little less but comes
armed by default, which is enough to deter many
pirates before they move close enough to tell if this
ship actually has weapons. It can jump two parsecs,
opening routes not available to free traders. The class
and many ships within it are named for Emperors of
the Flag and similarly short-lived high-importance
people and organisations. In ironic contrast, most
Empress Maravas wind up serving low importance
routes but are long lived.

131

