T

1. SENSORS
Most ships have small sensor/communicator units
distributed over the hull, forming an antenna the size of
the entire ship. Being ship-wide, these tend not to be
noted on deckplans.
What is noted on deckplans are any large sensor
units distinct from the ship’s primary computer,
customarily mounted on the edge of the ship,
usually under an armoured cover. For many nonmilitary ships, advanced sensors are seen as a
needless expense, with the resulting space usage
so tiny that even processing nodes do not show up
on deckplans. This is not the case for our example
ships, for differing reasons.
Of the three examples, the Animal most often uses
its sensors at relatively close range, although most
hunting competitions with any notion of fairness will
ban use of shipboard sensors unless all entrants
have access to similar-quality sensors aboard
similar-size ships. However, the Animal is designed
to support safaris in extreme wilderness conditions
where such regulations rarely apply.
That the Suleiman has the most complex sensor
array of the three should come as no surprise given
its original mission, although the use of the electronic

R

A

V

E

L

L

warfare capability is not immediately clear to those
who think it primarily an explorer. Even when it travels
to places thought to be uninhabited, there is always a
risk of pirates or others who cannot let visitors escape
alive. Then there is the ‘courier’ part of its ‘scout/
courier’ mission, often carrying packages important
enough that others may wish to waylay them. This
may not always be through direct violence as simply
jamming a courier’s communications can prevent it
from completing its mission. As a result, the Suleiman
mounts a military-grade sensor suite.
The Empress Marava’s sensors are more general
purpose, from detecting would-be pirates and finding
otherwise hidden downports, to scanning planetoids
for mineral deposits. Some captains strip out the
processing nodes to wrest a few more tons of cargo
space and slightly lower maintenance costs, although
this ship typically undertakes such a variety of missions
that they will frequently be useful.

1. Sensor processor
2. Data input from sensors
3. Radio transceiver antenna array
4. Radio-translucent outer cover

Ship Walkthrough

Hull

140

E

3

ANIMAL SENSORS

R

