T

2. BRIDGE
From the austere functionality of a freighter or mining
ship to the near-overwhelming array of information
available on a military vessel, the bridge best
exemplifies what role a ship is intended to perform.
Of the three ship classes here, the Animal’s bridge is the
most obvious example as it normally only has two control
stations, encouraging the engineer, medic and steward
to perform duties elsewhere. The bridge’s location
emphasises style and luxury over security. The forward
viewport provides a commanding view over everything
in front of the ship, serving as an observation post for
hunting expeditions and a panoramic view for more
luxurious affairs. For the former, this viewport is often
overlaid with sensor information to maximise situational
awareness. For the latter, the viewport extends to the
trophy lounge below the bridge, allowing a better view
whilst entertaining guests.

Ship Walkthrough

The Suleiman, on the other hand, is almost pure
utility. Although the bridge is poorly protected near
the front of the ship, it is positioned behind some
not insignificant bulk to provide cover from headon fire, while capitalising on the Suleiman’s sloped
hull for additional protection. Unlike the Animal’s
relative luxury, the Suleiman’s bridge is typically left
austere. The deck is textured metal and surrounding
bulkheads are given simple cushioning, in the event
of grav-plate failure.

R

A

V

E

L

E

An Empress Marava’s bridge strikes a balance. Although
it lacks the grand vista provided by an Animal’s bridge,
it nonetheless maintains a greater degree of comfort
than a Suleiman, encouraging its use as an informal
commons. Although the Empress Marava does have a
formal commons, these are located on the upper deck
with the passenger staterooms, resulting in them being
almost entirely allocated for passengers. The crew coopting the bridge as a commons helps facilitate greater
teamwork, which can assist in the wider range of roles
the Empress Marava is expected to undertake. There is
one slight curiosity surrounding the bridge, however; it is
mounted off-centre.
Regardless of their differences, any bridge will have
information readouts available to the crew in addition
to piloting controls. While the bridge is the traditional
place for a captain to give orders from, most small
ships have crews too small to need a dedicated
captain, officer or other administrator, which is why
these bridges lack a captain’s console, whether or not
there is an attached office.

1. Forward viewport
2. Touchscreen control panel
3. Control seat/acceleration couch
4. Armrest-mounted control grip
5. Overhead holodisplay
6. Cupholder/folding tray
7. Vehicle emergency kit
8. Security camera and fire suppression projector

8

5
1
2

2

3
3

4

ANIMAL BRIDGE

142

L

R

