T

3. OFFICE

While a ship’s office is used primarily as a meeting
place, this is a good example of where the same space
can be used for different purposes.
The Animal tends to use its office space as an area
where the captain can have a quiet meeting separately
from the prying ears of the crew. The desk is not
standardised in design or placement and often a
reflection of the captain. A tidy captain will have things
neatly arranged, while others may have papers and
equipment spewing from drawers and stacked up on
flat surfaces. There is barely room for three chairs, to
accommodate the not uncommon situation where a
captain needs to ‘talk’ with two other people but actually
intends to initiate them talking with each other.

Ship Walkthrough

The builders of the Suleiman realised the importance
of an office to negotiate deals and hold bureaucratic
meetings. While not luxurious, the design is tailored
to these long meetings, with many ships installing
comfortable chairs and a mini-kitchen, focused
on preparation of food and drink during ongoing
negotiations. Given its purpose, it is less customisable
than the Animal’s office despite being larger, with

144

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

most standard fixtures being difficult or inconvenient
to modify. Chairs are usually padded and identical,
with the captain taking the lone chair at the far side
of the table. Two chairs are normally set up on the
side closer to the door but more can be inflated and
deployed when needed, up to a cramped maximum of
four visitor seats. The table is usually fixed, set slightly
back from the centre of the room to give more space
for visitors. In practice, the mini-kitchen is more often
used to help sustain crew morale as the Suleiman
lacks proper commons, only seeing thorough cleaning
when and if used for diplomatic functions. It is widely
suspected this design was the result of bureaucratic
kickbacks and lobbying.
The Empress Marava, like many ships, has no office.

1. Mini-kitchen (Suleiman only)
2. Microwave (Suleiman only)
3. Sink (Suleiman only)
4. Washing/drying unit (Suleiman only)
5. Food storage cabinets (Suleiman only)
6. Meeting table (Suleiman only)
7. Holographic projection unit (Suleiman only)
8. Chairs
9. Captain’s desk (Animal only)
10. Security camera and fire suppression projector

R

