T

4. LADDER/LIFT

As all ships presented have more than one deck, they
must provide some means of interdeck transit. Both
ladders and lifts are used; stairs are not found on any of
these ships as there is not enough foot traffic to justify
their use. When new, the Animal, Empress Marava
and Suleiman have a standard lift and ladder system
installed between the iris valves of their two decks.
The Animal’s lift is in a somewhat awkward position,
being in the corridor running between the main airlock
and the rest of the ship. Although this can prove
inconvenient for someone wanting to enter or leave
the ship while the lift is in operation, it does serve an
important role; the Animal’s bridge is on the upper
deck, so a lift must be positioned close to the entrance
in order to facilitate quick boarding. Both ladder and lift
are overbuilt, as the Animal’s included air/raft may be
used to transport anything from hunted game to traded
cargo, which must then be passed down into the cargo
bay on the lower deck.
The Suleiman has a barrier around the base of the
lift to keep loose cargo from accidentally falling
under the platform during transit. There are sensors
under the lift platform for such problems that will
halt it if anything is under the plate, usually moving
a short way to allow inconvenient access rather
than no access. Be sure to check the security
camera if a lift is malfunctioning, as there may be

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

something blocking the lift on the floor below. Moving
obstructions can prove complicated, which provides
a good use-case for remote-controlled grav carts.
Both the Animal and Suleiman have a separate
ladder/lift providing access to their turret, a common
arrangement for roof-mounted turrets. These lifts are
frequently set to rise quickly due to the urgency of
reaching the turret when under attack.
The Empress Marava has a similar issue to the
Animal, being located in the middle of not only a
corridor but an intersection. This exacerbates the
issue of someone trying to traverse the corridors while
the lift is in use but has proved useful for quick access
regardless of where someone is on the fore end of the
lower deck. However, it may have been this issue that
led to the crew of our example – the Gustus – opting
to remove the gravitic lift’s platform, leaving only a
lighted ring where the grav-plate is engaged. The
platform’s removal can make traversal easier, albeit
at a risk of walking into a still-active lift but limits what
can be carried between decks.
1. Lift platform (Animal and Suleiman only)
2. Gravitic lift (Empress Marava only)
3. Emergency ladder
4. Lift mechanism
5. Iris valve
6. Security camera and fire suppression projector

Ship Walkthrough

6

5

4
5

1

ANIMAL LIFT

146

3

R

