T

5. STATEROOM

A sophont’s stateroom is their corner of the ship,
even if shared. It is where crew can relax, store
personal items, sleep and generally live. As with any
personalised space, a stateroom is a reflection of
its inhabitant and as such will be as varied as the
sophonts who live in them, as some may also use their
room as a place of study, private meditation or worship.
Some are messy while others are spotless. This section
concerns itself with how staterooms are utilised aboard
each of the three example ships and how their crews
have modified them.
The Animal, as with many passenger-carrying ships,
makes some attempt to divide crew staterooms
from passenger’s staterooms. In this case, the four
staterooms on the port side of the upper deck are
generally reserved for crew, as they are positioned
closest to restricted crew areas. The remaining
staterooms are more suited to passengers, as the three
on the starboard side are located close to the ship’s
common area and the four on the lower deck are in
proximity to the trophy lounge. As the Finicky Platypus
is typically used for hunting expeditions, the pictured
stateroom features a selection of hunting equipment. In
addition, the crew selected a steam-based shower, as
both water and sonic variants have proved less efficient
at removing blood from clothing and skin.

Ship Walkthrough

The Suleiman, despite being rated for three crew and
often carrying two, is built with four staterooms. The
Suleiman is intended to run courier missions but these

R

A

V

E

L

E

do not always involve traditional cargo. Often, a number
of passengers must be carried, some of whom may
baulk at double occupancy. As a result, four staterooms
are present, although one can be co-opted as a common
area. In the case of the Dark Poni, only one of the four
staterooms is routinely occupied by the crew. The IISS
generally prefers sonic showers, as this offers the best
cleaning ability across the widest range of contaminants.
The Empress Marava has perhaps the most dramatic
example of segregating passengers from crew, as
the six passenger staterooms and their common area
are located on the upper deck, completely separate
from both crew staterooms and essential systems.
The Gustus, however, carries five crew with enough
diversity that double-occupancy is infeasible, causing
one passenger stateroom to be used by crew. It is
because of this diversity that a water-based shower
was chosen; both steam and sonic showers can be
irritating to certain sophonts’ physiologies. The pictured
stateroom belongs to the astrogator.

1. Bunk bed (Animal only)
2. Double bed (Suleiman only)
3. Single bed (Empress Marava only)
4. Gun rack (Animal only)
5. Shelves (Suleiman only)
6. Knickknack shelves (Empress Marava only)
7. Foldable washbasin
8. Ship's cat

4

1
7

ANIMAL STATEROOM

148

L

R

