T

6. DOCKING SPACE
Many popular small ships are designed with an
exploratory vessel separate from the main ship and
these examples are no exception. All three have
a docking space for an air/raft; the Animal has an
additional docking space for a launch, while the
Suleiman carries disposable probes.
The Animal is likely the most interesting, courtesy of the
aforementioned launch. Fitting a relatively large craft on
a small ship resulted in a number of compromises; for
one, the launch carries an ATV, causing maintenance to
become even more complicated. With no way to remove
the ATV from the launch while docked, any tools or
spare parts must first be brought into the docking space,
then into the launch and then the ATV’s hangar. Repairs
are typically delayed until the launch can be moved
outside, usually at a starport with adequate facilities.
Comparatively, the air/raft dock is a much simpler affair,
consisting of a sliding door on the dorsal side of the ship.
However, its location just behind the Animal’s turret can
make docking while in combat complicated.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

their means of access and, besides probe drones being
much smaller, it is not unheard of for both deployment
and retrieval to occur simultaneously. As a result, there
will typically be two access hatches connecting to the
same storage airlock. One will be a small-scale launch
tube, using either electromagnetic or gravitic propulsion,
where the other will typically be a long docking arm to
reach for and clamp to approaching drones.
Unlike the Animal and Suleiman, the Empress Marava
allows its air/raft to be docked through a front-facing
docking space on the lower deck, which means the
air/raft can be docked in either nose-in or nose-out
orientation. Whichever is used depends on the pilot’s
preferences, many of whom are quick to defend them.
Pilots that expect a stressful situation on landing will
generally dock nose-out to facilitate rapid deployment,
while those on ships with less exciting missions prefer
the greater ease of docking nose-in.

1. Air/raft (Empress Marava and Suleiman)
2. Docking space hatch (Empress Marava and
Animal)
3. Launch (Animal only)
4. Vehicle part storage
5. Overhead docking space hatch (Suleiman only)
6. Docking clamps
7. Decontamination scanner
8. Decontamination projector
9. Vent for air filtration and pump
10. Security camera and fire suppression projector

The Suleiman’s air/raft docking bay – other than its
position next to a workshop, making maintenance much
easier – is largely identical to the Animal’s, including
proximity to a dorsal turret. It is, however, unique in
that it carries a number of probe drones. These are
slightly distinct from vehicle docking bays, mostly in

8

10

Ship Walkthrough

3

150

R

9
2

4

6

ANIMAL DOCKING SPACE

7

