T

7. AIRLOCK
The basic airlock is among the least variable internal
locations between ship classes, having long since been
standardised. It has performed a studied and refined
vital function since the earliest days of spaceflight and
other applications that deal with significant pressure or
environmental differentials.
In addition to a hatch, the Animal’s airlock features a
hinged floor that unfolds into a staircase. However,
fitting this staircase into the considerably smaller airlock
the Animal used proved complicated and required a
retractable pad extending out of the floor plate. The
airlock’s smaller size limits what can be stored within,
leading to the nearby ship’s locker being co-opted to
store additional equipment.
The Suleiman, as it does not need to contend with
much in the way of heavy cargoes, opted for a much
simpler approach; keep the hatch and add an external
ladder to provide access to the ground. It is much
larger than the Animal’s airlock, allowing more room for
vacc suit storage.

Ship Walkthrough

The Empress Marava’s personnel airlocks are largely
identical to the Suleiman’s but its cargo airlocks deserve
more notice. The external hatches match the standard
size for a small cargo hatch, allowing Tonner cargo
containers – see page 45 – and small vehicles to be
loaded and unloaded in hostile conditions. This external
hatch includes a cargo ramp to make loading easier, not
to mention access to the onboard loading belt.

152

Not all entrances are airlocks. The rear cargo ramp of
an Empress Marava is a prime example. Care must
be taken when opening these away from port. The
problems of opening in vacuum aside, doing so in a
tainted atmosphere brings the taint aboard, requiring
decontamination of exposed spaces.

1. Outer door
2. Outer window
3. Suit storage (Animal and Suleiman only)
4. Decontamination scanner
5. Decontamination projector
6. Vent for air filtration and pump
7. Control panel (pressurisation and
decontamination controls)
8. Security camera and fire suppression projector
9. Ladder (retracted, Suleiman only)

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

R

