8. POWER PLANT

In many ships within the Third Imperium, particularly
smaller ones, the power plant, jump drive and
manoeuvre drives are co-located in the engineering
section, for the sake of convenience. As the manoeuvre
drive is traditionally aft, this places the jump drive and
power plant there too. Note that a great deal of tradition
is involved here, as there is no one place aboard a ship
that the power plant must be.

6

2
3

The Animal’s power needs, greater than the other two
vessels, demanded a compromise between two schools
of thought within naval architecture; whether it is better
to use an array of individual cells or combine them
into one larger power plant. It carries two individual
power plants, either one of which is sufficient to run
the ship’s essential systems, which when combined
can run most of the ship’s systems simultaneously,
allowing either to be turned offline for maintenance or
repair without putting crew at risk. The corridor between
these two plants allows easy access to either, rendering
maintenance significantly easier but their close proximity
can result in one hit disabling both.

1

ANIMAL AIRLOCK
8

4
9

3

5
1
7

2

SULEIMAN AIRLOCK

6

1

The Empress Marava’s power plant resembles the
Animal’s, despite its much lower power demands.
It is likewise divided into two but they are located in
disparate locations to port and starboard. This was
likely done to accommodate larger cargoes but also
allows for greater survivability. However, the limited
power generation of each can handle little more than
basic life support, so any crew anticipating meaningful
combat would be well-advised to upgrade them.

Ship Walkthrough

2
7

The Suleiman, perhaps as a result of Vilani influence,
echoes the original Fusion+ design. All individual cells are
concentrated into a single plant, leading to an appearance
not entirely dissimilar to internal combustion engines.
Although this resulted in impressive redundancy and
ease of maintenance, it lacks something in capacity.
Should the manoeuvre and jump drive be used at full
draw at the same time, essential ship systems must be
throttled, including sensors and weapons. This is rarely
a severe problem but is enough of one that some crews
have opted to install high-efficiency power cells to charge
the jump drive instead of relying on the power plant.

EMPRESS MARAVA AIRLOCK

153

