9. MANOEUVRE DRIVE

Essentially a set of high-powered grav plates stacked
in sequence, the manoeuvre drive is the technology
that enables economical intrasystem travel and is
among the first applications of gravitics. As detailed in
Manoeuvre Drives starting on page 77, a manoeuvre
drive does not just provide thrust but directional control,
with more agility the more the m-drive units are spread
out. The three example ships illustrate this.
The Animal is an oddity; unlike other examples, it
mounts only one manoeuvre drive, with just one thruster
plate. Based on design records, it is believed this was
done to avoid interference with the multi-environment
spaces, as gravitic fields could react poorly with alien life
carried aboard. As a result, it is the only one to carry a
manoeuvre drive capable of independent thrust vectors
from the same thruster plate.

The Empress Marava mounts two independent
manoeuvre drives with two power distributors, designed
for a wider variety of missions and intended to offer
wider possibilities for upgrades. These are mounted
further apart, granting better agility, although this was
done to accommodate larger cargoes through the rear
door rather than concern for performance in a dogfight.
Like the jump drive, the manoeuvre drive is not the most
visually spectacular of ship systems; it pulls energy in
and outputs a different form of energy out without visible
mechanical motion. As with the other large machinery
in the engineering section, the average visitor will see
nothing but large metal boxes, power cables, screens
with status updates and security cameras with fire
suppression projectors. Once outside the ship, however,
the sight of a powerful manoeuvre drive in operation can
be an awe-inspiring sight.

The Suleiman, optimised for ease of maintenance
over agility, mounts twin manoeuvre drives that
share a single power distributor. The drives being
close together lowers manoeuvrability but this setup
provides one less component to maintain. This can
limit potential for upgrades in future, as a new power
distributor would be needed to handle the higher
power demands of a 3G or greater drive.

1. Thruster plates
2. Power distribution system
3. Cooling system
4. Bracing
5. Input power cables
6. Drive control computers
7. Status monitors
8. Security camera and fire suppression projector

8

4

6
5
3

Ship Walkthrough

7

1

2

ANIMAL MANOEUVRE DRIVE

155

