T

11. CARGO HOLD

Certain naval architects, chiefly those who have never
served aboard a spacecraft, dismiss the cargo hold as
leftover space, to be listed on a specifications sheet and
forgotten about. They are mistaken. It is the stowage
space for crew supplies and spare parts, directly affecting
ship endurance; the lifeblood of any merchant vessel, the
modular part of any spacecraft and so much more.
The Animal’s cargo hold is a cubbyhole with no
external access. Nothing gets in or out unless it can
fit through an iris valve. This is tolerated because
the hold is mainly used for implements, supplies and
prizes not important enough to display, all of which can
be carried by hand. Refrigerated and other specialenvironment cargo space is supplied by the multienvironment holding tanks, leaving the hold free for
room-temperature cargoes.
The Suleiman’s cargo hold is similar, although can
be accessed from above. It is common to place
cargoes on hovering or wheeled cargo trolleys that
can fit through the iris valve, ride the lift down, and be
pushed into the bay. The version presented here has
a flat floor cargo hold.

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

The Empress Marava’s cargo hold is the main purpose
of the ship and it shows. Aside from the greater volume,
there are airlocks of substantial size with large access
hatches to permit transit of containers, allowing it
to take on and drop off 4Ds, Tonners and smaller
containers even in vacuum or hostile atmospheres.
The two cargo airlocks open onto the middle of the
hold for redundancy as well as to speed up loading and
unloading, so important cargo can be stowed to one
side while maintaining access to the other. A common
customisation is to remove the staterooms adjacent to
the cargo hold, using the space for additional capacity.
1. Cargo area
2. Lift (Suleiman only)
3. Small cargoes on trolleys
4. Preserved prize carcasses (Animal only)
5. Cargo airlock doors (Empress Marava only)
6. Tonner cargo containers
(Empress Marava only)
7. Cold storage
(Suleiman and Empress Marava only)
8. Food
9. Spare parts for ship maintenance
10 Control panel (environment, alarms and fire
extinguisher)
11. Security camera and fire suppression projector

Ship Walkthrough

11

9

10

8

3

2

1

CARGO HOLD

158

R

