12. FUEL PROCESSOR

common to process one wing’s fuel tanks at a time,
using internal baffles to push the fuel in a loop around
the tank, with a fixed baffle near the pipes leading to
and from the processor and a floating baffle further
along the loop as more fuel is processed.

Fuel scoops and processors greatly extend operational
range, as they allow a ship to jump without relying
on infrastructure or devoting more internal volume
to fuel. They are often tucked away behind access
panels rather than given a dedicated room, as they
are monitored remotely with internal mechanisms to
diagnose and fix any issues. It is rare that an engineer
must directly interact with these components.

The Suleiman serves as a counterexample; its fuel
processors are mounted in two separate units on the
port and starboard sides, which maximises surface
area and grants redundancy, and they feed directly into
the two fuel tanks used for the jump drive. In addition,
it can refine enough fuel for one full jump in 12 hours
compared to both the Animal’s and Empress Marava’s
24. However, it also has worse access than either of
the other ships, or – as some frustrated scouts claim –
any ship that currently exists. A tight crawlspace must
be traversed to reach them, the only access points
to which are found in the bulkheads of staterooms.
Maintenance via external access is common, although
obviously problematic if done while underway.

The Animal is unique among the three examples,
as it mounts its fuel processor in its own dedicated
space, with a small area for an engineer to stand and
work. However, as it is one contiguous unit, it lacks
redundancy. In addition, as fuel for the Animal is stored
in its wings, it takes longer on average to get to and
from the processor than in the other two ships. It is

1. Fuel scoop
2. Electrolysis, heating and gravitic sorting tanks
3. Filters
4. Fuel tank connection – unrefined fuel
5. Fuel tank connection – refined fuel
6. Impurities output
7. Status monitors

7

The Empress Marava is a compromise between these
two. Like the Suleiman, it splits its fuel processors into
two units and exposes them to the outer hull, where they
have direct access to the single fuel tank the Empress
Marava uses. Unlike the Suleiman, they are simple to
access; their hatches can be found in the ceiling of the
lower cargo deck, above a ladder to grant easy access.

2

5

4
6

Ship Walkthrough

3

FUEL PROCESSOR

159

