T

Although fuel scoops could be mounted on the dorsal
side, as the processors can be found on the top deck,
this is rarely done as the low pressure created during
pitch-up manoeuvres would limit fuel intake.

13. TURRET
A minority of ships are designed expressly for combat
but most come with hardpoints installed. Some are
for the sake of combat, even for just token attempts
at self-defence. Others use them for directional
sensors or mining equipment, particularly laser drills.
While hardpoints can mount a range of weapon
configurations, by far the most common is the turret.
Instead of regular doors, iris valves are almost
universally used for turret areas, even on many alien
ships, for security and because turrets are often a
focus of enemy fire. Most explosive items aboard a ship
are found in the turrets, whether ammunition such as
missiles or ultracapacitor banks for energy weapons.
These items are usually kept on the turret’s side of the
partition to limit damage should they be set off.

Ship Walkthrough

As the Animal is intended for hunting expeditions,
the mounting location of the turret has limited combat
effectiveness. Although the dorsal side’s centreline is
an extremely common choice for single-turret ships, the
Animal’s flat hull means the turret has limited depression,
much to the dismay of those attempting to use shipscale weapons to hunt or provide ground defence. Many
who install a second weapon on their Animal do so on
the ventral side to avoid this weakness. Gaining line of
sight from the dorsal turret to ground targets requires
either being at long range, tilting substantially, or flying

160

R

A

V

E

L

L

E

inverted. As the Animal lacks lifters on its dorsal side,
flying inverted is ill-advised but possible for those skilled
enough. The Finicky Platypus’s pilot is quite practised
at this manoeuvre and the ship mounts a pulse laser for
use in taking down megafauna.
The Suleiman has a similar mounting location but, unlike
the Animal, it is on a sharply angled hull. This allows the
turret to be depressed to a much greater extent, allowing
fire upon targets at almost point blank range while landed.
The IISS installs weapons on their Suleimans but they are
expected to tackle such a range of missions that no single
loadout would suffice. A missile rack might be installed
for drone deployment, a mining laser for taking samples,
a beam laser for self-defence and so on. As a result, a
vessel will usually leave the shipyard with empty turrets
for future modification. In addition, when a Suleiman is
assigned for detached duty, all weapons are uninstalled
by default. This is partly a cost-saving measure and partly
to prevent crews – who still represent the IISS – from
getting into trouble immediately. The Dark Poni featured
here has a beam laser.
The Empress Marava has two turrets installed, one
each on the port and starboard sides. This is a common
choice for ships designed from the start to have two
turrets, as opposed to retrofits like a two-turret Animal.
They are mounted quite far forwards, which gives
the Empress Marava good convergence of fire for a
trader. The two turrets were also mounted in this way
to provide cover for the cargo airlocks and to fend off
pirates in space and displeased locals at port. The
turrets are occupied by beam lasers out of the shipyard.
This example, the Gustus, replaced its beam lasers
with mining lasers, as some of its recent passenger
service has been belt mining expeditions for those who
have never been offworld.

1. Gunner’s seat
2. Control grip
3. Primary display
4. Customisation controls
5. Ultracapacitor banks

R

