COMMON AREAS
This is usually an under-detailed area of the ship
on standard deckplans, on purpose, as it is the
most variable from ship to ship, customised to
each crew’s desires and adjustable based on the
current mission. For example, around the time its
crew was interviewed during production of this
book, the commons on the Finicky Platypus had a
large exercise area, both to entertain passengers
and provide exercise for the crew who were
accustomed to 1G. The ship was often carrying
Vegan passengers at the time, so ship-wide
gravity was set to their homeworld’s 0.5G.

Ships such as the Suleiman do not have a set area for
commons, requiring the crew to eat, train or assemble
in other parts of the ship. The crew use facilities in
individual staterooms or the mini-galley in the office
to dispense food, while utilising the cargo bay for any
serious movement training and the bridge for important
assemblies. The two or three-person crews commonly
found aboard a Suleiman leave one or two staterooms
spare, which are co-opted as a general assembly area
if not used for passengers.

15. MISSION SUPPORT
This section covers three areas dedicated to support
of a ship’s mission; the Animal’s multi-environment
holding tanks, the Suleiman’s workshop, and the
Empress Marava’s low berths. ‘Mission support area’ is
a general term which can be applied to virtually any ship
component, such as a passenger liner’s commons or an
assault ship’s armoury but they will always be there.

A workshop like the Suleiman’s can be vital for
survival away from civilisation. Usually sized for two
engineers, this room at minimum has a workbench
with built-in tools. Computer-controlled vices with
hand and power tools have organisation, storage
and recharging stations built in. A simple gravity
hammer wired to the ship’s power, both to simplify its
design and make sure it does not leave the room is a
visually prominent addition. A fabricator cabinet with a
1x0.5x0.2 metre internal chamber for manufacturing
small parts and electronics is standard, and a CNC
machine with advanced TL tools such as a gravitic
welder for reductive manufacturing works in tandem
with a holographic design station that doubles as a
console to control the workshop’s automation. Other
ship-specific equipment for the repair and fabrication
of vital components, most often diagnostic equipment
for electronic or mechanical faults, typically fill up the
rest of the workbench and room. Stock Suleimans
come with air filtration systems of notoriously limited
endurance, building up intolerable smells over a month
if the filters are not replaced weekly. This was standard
to the point that spare filter supply was a common
measure of a Suleiman’s endurance until someone
hit on the trick of breaking down and remanufacturing
used filters in the workshop, largely eliminating this
need. Many Suleiman crews remain unaware that this
is possible, let alone the steps involved, giving the ship
class a reputation for smelly interiors.
For some sophonts, paying for space travel in a
comfortable stateroom is too expensive, yet they need
to travel from world to world. Low berths provide the
cheapest way to see the stars. Ideally, a passenger
will be placed in suspended animation before the ship
takes off and not wake until they reach their destination.
Despite some issues with surviving the trip if the ship
is not properly equipped, for most sophonts this is the
cheapest option to travel to other systems.

Ship Walkthrough

The Empress Marava’s commons are intended for
passenger use. While it does contain what could be
considered a full galley, it specialises in making and
dispensing food from pre-processed packets, thus
needing less overall space for food prep, leaving the
rest of the area for moveable tables, stackable chairs
and options for passenger comfort.

The Animal’s multi-environment holding tanks are
one of the most versatile areas within the ship. Most
safari ships use these for live animals, as either
trophies or bait for megafauna. The tanks can be
adjusted to simulate an animal’s native environment
and can even house aquatic species by sealing the
door and flooding the tank. A few captains have
adapted them into brigs. Hunters have utilised the
tanks for cold storage of freshly killed meat, which is
one of their more pedestrian uses.

163

