1. Empty tank (Animal only)
2. Live capture tank (Animal only)
3. Frozen meat (Animal only)
4. Storage areas (Animal only)
5. Control panel (Animal only)
6. Access panel (Animal only)
7. Fabricator cabinet (Suleiman only)
8. Wired gravity hammer (Suleiman only)
9. Tool cabinet (Suleiman only)
10. Holographic design station (Suleiman only)
11. CNC machine (Suleiman only)
12. Low Berths (Empress Marava only)
13. Passengers (Empress Marava only)
14. Security camera and fire suppression projector

16. LANDING GEAR AND LIFTERS
These systems rarely appear on deckplans but
are essential all the same. Lifters can cover the
entire ventral surface of the ship, while landing gear
struts are often mounted at the corners. Among the
three example ships, despite similarities in function
between different landing gear, there is some
difference to be found.

The Animal, although expected to land in rough
terrain, is also meant to carry significant loads. This
necessitates a compromise approach as complicated
landing gear would better handle rough terrain but not
bear as much load. As a result, the landing pads are
relatively simple, which can limit versatility. However,
it can still actuate these pads independently, which

Despite the Suleiman’s much smaller size and
expected load, it has quite possibly the most
sophisticated landing gear of the three. Only the
Suleiman is expected to deal with virtually any
landing site across Charted Space. It mounts landing
gear under each corner of the ship’s triangular hull,
as this maximises the base and renders tipping
virtually impossible. On the landing pads, there are
expandable panels to increase the surface area and
thus decrease ground pressure, preventing sinking
into muddy or unsteady ground. Unlike most landing
gear that fold away when not in use, the Suleiman
keeps the landing pad flat as it enters or leaves the
craft. This, combined with a sophisticated platform on
the pad itself, allows the ship to stay level on uneven
terrain by independently retracting each landing gear
and adjusting the pads. Its lifter array is notable for its
relatively high strength.
The Empress Marava, although capable of operating
beyond pre-prepared landing pads, does not expect
to land in the wilderness in the same way as the
Animal or Suleiman. As a result, its landing gear is
optimised to handle the much higher loads that almost
60 displacement tons of cargo can bring to bear. This
requires simplicity, as the more complicated actuated
pads of the Suleiman or crouching ability of the Animal
would impede its load-bearing capacity (although the
latter would be useful for loading cargo, the Empress
Marava already mounts loading ramps in both its rear
cargo door and airlocks). While not intended to land
on rough or uneven terrain, it is capable of doing so;
although Empress Maravas have been known to be
abandoned after they could not take off from what
previously seemed to be a safe landing site.

Ship Walkthrough

The enclosure the landing gear retracts into is not
‘inside’ in all but the most technical sense. Few
designs pressurise this space or provide access from
inside, leaving maintenance to be performed while
the ship is landed. Would-be stowaways hitching
rides on landing gear typically wind up crushed or
suffocated, should they survive long enough for the
ship to leave the atmosphere. Anyone agile enough
to avoid being crushed and with enough foresight
and resources to wear a vacc suit usually has an
easier time simply boarding the ship.

allow it to not only adapt to uneven terrain but also
‘crouch’ closer to the ground. This can ease loading
of larger cargoes into the rear without need of a crane
or gravitic assistance. The considerable wingspan
of the Animal presented some difficulties as if the
landing gear were mounted too far out, it could not
land outside of flat ground but if they were mounted
too far in, it could risk tipping. Thankfully, the outboard
sections of the Animal proved lightweight enough that
this was rarely a concern, the occasional megafaunal
avian using them as a perch notwithstanding.

165

